add 6.3.0 release notes (#10249)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-6.3.0.md

    [Provides INTERVAL partitioning as a new way of defining Range partitions](/partitioned-table.md#range-interval-partitioning). You do not need to enumerate all partitions, which drastically reduces the lengthy way of writing Range partition statements. The semantic is equivalent to the original Range partition.

* Range Columns partitioning supports defining multiple columns [#36636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36636) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

    Support [PARTITION BY RANGE COLUMNS (column_list)](/partitioned-table.md#range-columns-partitioning). `column_list` is no longer limited to a single column. The basic feature is the same as MySQL.

* EXCHANGE PARTITION becomes GA [#35996](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35996) @[ymkzpx](https://github.com/ymkzpx)

    [EXCHANGE PARTITION](/partitioned-table.md#partition-management) becomes GA after performance and stability improvements.

* TiDB supports two more [window functions](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md) [#5579](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5579) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) **tw：shichun-0415**

>     * `LEAD`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `LEAD()`
```

Author: For this change, the feature owner and PM thought it would be more accurate if `LEAD` and `LAG` do not include `()` because they are used in the following three ways: 
> - LEAD/LAG(expr)
> - LEAD/LAG(expr, offset)
> - LEAD/LAG(expr1, offset, expr2)

Reviewer: For me `LEAD()` would make it obvious that this is a function, without saying anything about the number and types of arguments.

Example: [the snprintf(3) man page](https://linux.die.net/man/3/snprintf) has this: "The functions in the printf() family produce output according to..." and "The functions snprintf() and vsnprintf() write at most size bytes...".

Reviewer 2: LGTM

>     * `LAG`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `LAG()`
```

Reviewer 3: LGTM

> * The `CREATE USER` statement supports the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option [#37051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37051) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` statements support the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option [#37051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37051) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**
```

Author: I think the [Line 47](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10249/files#diff-577672dd123c42d722caad525849ff7ee636eab7a8ca14597c7e674a93cbc04fR47) below has mentioned the support of `ALTER USER` statement. Do you think we should combine them in one description?

Reviewer: Yes. However both options are fine with me.

Author: @ran-huang Please help combine the description of `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` statements into one. Thanks.

    When you create a user using the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) statement, you can specify whether the created user is locked using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option. A locked user cannot log in to the database.

* The `ALTER USER` statement supports the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option [#37051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37051) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**

    You can modify the lock state of an existing user using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option in the [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md) statement.

* JSON data type and JSON functions become GA [#36993](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36993) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei) **tw: qiancai**

    JSON is a popular data format adopted by a large number of programs. TiDB has introduced the [JSON support](/data-type-json.md) as experimental since an earlier version, compatible with MySQL's JSON data type and some JSON functions. In v6.3.0, the JSON support becomes GA, providing TiDB with richer data types, and further improving TiDB compatibility with MySQL.

> * Provide lightweight metadata lock to improve the DML success rate during DDL change [#37275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37275) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) **tw: Oreoxmt**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Provide lightweight metadata lock to improve the DML success rate during DDL change (experimental) [#37275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37275) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) **tw: Oreoxmt**
```

* Improve the performance of adding indexes and reduce its impact on DML transactions [#35983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35983) @[benjamin2037](https://github.com/benjamin2037) **tw: Oreoxmt**

    To improve the speed of backfilling when creating an index, TiDB v6.3.0 accelerates the `ADD INDEX` and `CREATE INDEX` DDL operations when the [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) system variable is enabled. The performance of adding indexes is about three times faster than the original when the feature is enabled.

> * Add support for `REGEXP_INSTR()`, `REGEXP_LIKE()`, `REGEXP_REPLACE()`, and `REGEXP_SUBSTR()` regular expression functions [#23881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23881) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker) **tw: Oreoxmt**

Reviewer: It is not really obvious here that it is extending the regexp support that TiDB already had. This is improving MySQL 8.0 compatibility.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Improve MySQL 8.0 compatibility by adding support for `REGEXP_INSTR()`, `REGEXP_LIKE()`, `REGEXP_REPLACE()`, and `REGEXP_SUBSTR()` regular expression functions [#23881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23881) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker) **tw: Oreoxmt**
```

Reviewer: @Oreoxmt yes that's perfect.

    For more details about the compatibility with MySQL, see [Regular expression compatibility with MySQL](/functions-and-operators/string-functions.md#regular-expression-compatibility-with-mysql).

> ### Security

Reviewer: The addition of the `SM3()` function seems to be missing here.
```
sql> SELECT SM3('test');
+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| SM3('test')                                                      |
+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 55e12e91650d2fec56ec74e1d3e4ddbfce2ef3a65890c2a19ecf88a307e76a23 |
+------------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.0103 sec)
```

Author: @ljun0712 PTAL

Reviewer: As a reference: #10353 did correctly update `functions-and-operators/encryption-and-compression-functions.md`

* TiKV supports the SM4 algorithm for encryption at rest. [#13041](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13041) @[jiayang-zheng](https://github.com/jiayang-zheng)

    Add the [SM4 algorithm](/encryption-at-rest.md) for TiKV encryption at rest. When you configure encryption at rest, you can enable the SM4 encryption capacity by setting the value of the "data-encryption-method" configuration to "sm4-ctr".

* TiFlash supports the SM4 algorithm for encryption at rest. [#5714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5714) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

    Add the [SM4 algorithm](/encryption-at-rest.md) for TiFlash encryption at rest. When you configure encryption at rest, you can enable the SM4 encryption capacity by setting the value of the "data-encryption-method" configuration to "sm4-ctr".

* TiDB supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm [#36192](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36192) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**

>     TiDB adds an authentication plugin [`tidb_sm3_password`](/system-variables.md#default_authentication_plugin) based on the SM3 algorithm. When this plugin is enabled, the user password is encrypted and validated using the SM3 algorithm.

Reviewer: Maybe link to https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/security-compatibility-with-mysql

> * JDBC supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm [issue]() @[lastincisor](https://github.com/lastincisor) **tw：ran-huang**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I think the `tidb_sm3_password` authentication now uses the `caching_sha2_password` client side plugin. This makes it compatible with existing MySQL clients, connectors, etc. This probably means there is no JDBC specific support needed.

Author: @ljun0712 PTAL

Reviewer 5: @dveeden We changed the compatibility of sm3 plugin in https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/37909. Now TiDB JDBC is required to use sm3 plugin.  PTAL.

Reviewer: I don't see any real issues with using `caching_sha2_password` as a clientside plugin. If that for some reason can't be used I think using [`mysql_clear_password`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/cleartext-pluggable-authentication.html) would have been better. Requiring a custom client side plugin that at least for now doesn't really do anything special is limiting compatibility a lot.

But that also means the release notes are correct, so this thread can be resolved.

>     Authenticating the user password needs client-side support. Now because [JDBC supports the SM3 algorithm](/develop/dev-guide-choose-driver-or-orm.md#java-drivers), you can connect to TiDB using SM3 authentication via JDBC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    In v5.3.0, TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats-new-in-v530) to control how the optimizer behaves when the statistics become outdated. The default value is `ON`, which means keeping the behavior of the old version: When statistics on objects involved in SQL are outdated, the optimizer considers that statistics (other than the total number of rows on the table) are no longer reliable and uses pseudo statistics instead. After tests and analyses of actual user scenarios, the default value of `tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats` is changed to `OFF` in v6.3.0. Even if the statistics become outdated, the optimizer will still use the statistics on the table, which is good for the execution program stability.

* The feature of disabling Titan becomes GA [#issue]() @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie) **tw：ran-huang**

    You can [disable Titan](/titan-configuration#disable-titan) for online TiKV nodes.

### Ease of use

> ### MySQL compatibility

Reviewer: There are a few things like `ACCOUNT LOCK`, JSON GA and regexp that are also improving MySQL compatibility. Maybe we want to list them here as well?

* DM supports adding a field to a table migrated to TiDB and assigning values to the field [#3262](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3262), [#3340](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3340) @[yufan022](https://github.com/yufan022) **tw：ran-huang**

    DM supports [adding a field to a table migrated to TiDB and assigning values to the field](link). When you merge and migrate MySQL shards to TiDB, you can use the field to distinguish which shard the record is migrated from.

### TiDB data share subscription

* TiCDC supports a deployment topology that can replicate data from multiple geo-distributed data sources [#issue]() @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy) **tw：ran-huang**

    To support replicating data from a single TiDB cluster to multiple geo-distributed data systems, starting from v6.3.0, [TiCDC can be deployed in multiple IDCs](link) to replicate data for each IDC. This feature helps deliver the capability of geo-distributed data replication and deployment topology.

* TiCDC supports keeping the snapshots consistent between the upstream and the downstream (sync point) [#issue]() @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw: TomShawn**

>     In the scenarios of data replication for disaster recovery, TiCDC supports periodically maintaining a downstream data snapshot so that the downstream snapshot is consistent with the upstream snapshot. With this feature, TiCDC can better match the scenarios where reads and writes are separate, and help you lower the cost.

Reviewer: Does this also improve sync-diff-inspector operation?

Reviewer 6: Yes, users can use the syncpoint function to check upstream and downstream consistency by sync-diff-inspector

---
title: TiDB 6.3.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB v6.3.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2022

TiDB version: 6.3.0-DMR

In v6.3.0-DMR, the key new features and improvements are as follows:

- TiKV and TiFlash support SM4 encryption at rest.
- TiDB supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm.
- The `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` statements support the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option.
- JSON data type and functions become generally available (GA).
- TiDB supports Null Aware Anti Join.
- TiDB provides execution time metrics at a finer granularity.
- A new syntactic sugar is added to simplify Range partition definitions.
- Range Columns partitioning supports defining multiple columns.

## New features

### SQL

> * Add a new syntactic sugar to simplify Range partition definitions [#issue]() @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Add a new syntactic sugar to simplify Range partition definitions [#35683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35683) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

> * Add a new syntactic sugar to simplify Range partition definitions [#35683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35683) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Add a new syntactic sugar Range INTERVAL partitioning to simplify Range partition definitions [#35683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35683) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

> * Add a new syntactic sugar Range INTERVAL partitioning to simplify Range partition definitions [#35683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35683) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Add a new syntactic sugar (Range INTERVAL partitioning) to simplify Range partition definitions [#35683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35683) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

    [Provides INTERVAL partitioning as a new way of defining Range partitions](/partitioned-table.md#range-interval-partitioning). You do not need to enumerate all partitions, which drastically reduces the lengthy way of writing Range partition statements. The semantic is equivalent to the original Range partition.

> * Range Columns partitioning supports defining multiple columns [#issue]() @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Range Columns partitioning supports defining multiple columns [#36636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36636) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

    Support [PARTITION BY RANGE COLUMNS (column_list)](/partitioned-table.md#range-columns-partitioning). `column_list` is no longer limited to a single column. The basic feature is the same as MySQL.

* EXCHANGE PARTITION becomes GA [#35996](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35996) @[ymkzpx](https://github.com/ymkzpx)

>     [EXCHANGE PARTITION]((/partitioned-table.md#partition-management) becomes GA after performance and stability improvements.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    [EXCHANGE PARTITION](/partitioned-table.md#partition-management) becomes GA after performance and stability improvements.
```

    性能问题的诊断通常从时间入手。 对执行时间的细粒度观测能力，是衡量数据库可观测性的重要标准。 TiDB 在新版中正式提供了细化数据指标，用于[对执行时间进行细化观测](/latency-breakdown.md)。 通过完整而又细分的指标数据，用户可以清晰的了解数据库的主要的时间消耗，进而快速发现关键问题，节省故障诊断的时间。 “执行时间”的细粒度观测能力，使得 TiDB 的观测性迈上了一个新的台阶。

* 增强的 slow log 和 trace 语句 [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw: Oreoxmt**

    在新版本中 TiDB [增强了 slow log 的内容和 trace 命令的输出](/latency-breakdown.md)。用户可以观测到 SQL 语句执行过程中，从 tidb parse 到 kv rocksdb 落盘全链路的延迟数据，进一步增强 TiDB 的诊断能力。

* TiDB Dashboard provides deadlock history information [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw: shichun-0415**

    From v6.3.0, TiDB Dashboard will provide deadlock history. If you find excessively long SQL lock waiting by analyzing slow logs or other information on TiDB Dashboard, you can turn to deadlock history for problem locating, which delivers better diagnosis experience.

### Performance

* TiFlash changes the way FastScan is used (experimental) [#5252](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5252) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

>     FastScan, introduced in TiFlash starting with v6.2.0, performed as expected, but lacked flexibility in how it was used. Therefore, in v6.3.0 [the way FastScan is used has changed](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md). TiFlash does not support using the switch to control the FastScan feature. Instead, it uses the system variable [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630) to control whether to turn on the FastScan function.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    FastScan, introduced in TiFlash starting with v6.2.0, performed as expected, but lacked flexibility in how it was used. Therefore, in v6.3.0 [the way of using FastScan has changed](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md). TiFlash does not support using the switch to control the FastScan feature. Instead, it uses the system variable [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630) to control whether to turn on the FastScan function.
```

>     FastScan, introduced in TiFlash starting with v6.2.0, performed as expected, but lacked flexibility in how it was used. Therefore, in v6.3.0 [the way of using FastScan has changed](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md). TiFlash does not support using the switch to control the FastScan feature. Instead, it uses the system variable [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630) to control whether to turn on the FastScan function.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    FastScan, introduced in TiFlash starting with v6.2.0, performed as expected, but lacked flexibility. Therefore, in v6.3.0 [the way of using FastScan has changed](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md). TiFlash does not support using the switch to control the FastScan feature. Instead, it uses the system variable [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630) to control whether to enable the FastScan function.
```

    
    When you upgrade from v6.2.0 to v6.3.0, all FastScan settings in v6.2.0 will become invalid, but will not affect the normal reading of data. You need to set the variable [`tiflash_fastscan`]. When you upgrade from an earlier version to v6.3.0, the FastScan feature is not enabled by default for all sessions to keep data consistency.

* TiFlash optimizes to improve data scanning performance in multiple concurrency scenarios [#5376](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5376) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

>     TiFlash reduces duplicate reads of the same data by combining read operations of the same data. It optimizes the resource overhead and improves the performance of data scanning in the case of concurrent tasks (/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file). It avoids the situation where the same data needs to be read separately in each task in multiple concurrent tasks, and avoids the possibility of multiple reads of the same data at the same time.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    TiFlash reduces duplicate reads of the same data by combining read operations of the same data. It optimizes the resource overhead and [improves the performance of data scanning in the case of concurrent tasks](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file). It avoids the situation where the same data needs to be read separately in each task in multiple concurrent tasks, and avoids the possibility of multiple reads of the same data at the same time.
```

>     This feature is experimental in v6.2.0, and becomes GA in v6.3.0.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    This feature was experimental in v6.2.0, and becomes GA in v6.3.0.
```

> * Improve performance of TiFlash data replication [#5237](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5237) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) 
> 
>     TiFlash uses the Raft protocol for data replication with TiKV. Prior to v6.3.0, it often took long time to replicate large amounts of replica data. TiDB v6.3.0 optimizes the TiFlash data replication mechanism and significantly improves the replication speed. When you use BR to recover data, use TiDB Lightning to import data, or add new TiFlash replicas, the replicas can be replicated more quickly. You can query with TiFlash in a more timely manner. In addition, TiFlash replicas will also reach a secure and balanced state faster when you scale up, scale down, or modify the number of TiFlash replicas.
> 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 8: @joey-yez, please note that we need to remove this note as this feature is moved to v6.4.

    In v5.3.0, TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats-new-in-v530) to control how the optimizer behaves when the statistics become outdated. The default value is `ON`, which means keeping the behavior of the old version: When statistics on objects involved in SQL are outdated, the optimizer considers that statistics (other than the total number of rows on the table) are no longer reliable and uses pseudo statistics instead. After tests and analyses of actual user scenarios, the default value of `tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats` is changed to `OFF` in v6.3.0. Even if the statistics become outdated, the optimizer will still use the statistics on the table, which is good for the execution program stability.

* The feature of disabling Titan becomes GA [#issue]() @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie) **tw：ran-huang**

    You can [disable Titan](/titan-configuration#disable-titan) for online TiKV nodes.

### Ease of use

> * Improve the accuracy of TiFlash data replication progress [#4902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4902) @[hehechen](https://github.com/hehechen) **tw: qiancai**
> 
>     In TiDB, the `PROGRESS` field of the `information_schema.tiflash_replica` table is used to indicate the progress of data replication from the corresponding tables in TiKV to the TiFlash replicas. In earlier TiDB versions, the `PROCESS` field only provides the progress of data replication during the creation of the TiFlash replicas. After a TiFlash replica is created, if new data is imported to a corresponding table in TiKV, this field will not be updated to show the replication progress from TiKV to TiFlash for the new data. 
> 
>     Since v6.3.0, TiDB improves the update mechanism of data replication progress for TiFlash replicas. After a TiFlash replica is created, if new data is imported to a corresponding table in TiKV,  the `PROGRESS` value in the [`information_schema.tiflash_replica`](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-replica.md) table will be updated to show the actual replication progress from TiKV to TiFlash for the new data. With this improvement, you can easily view the actual progress of TiFlash data replication.
> 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 8: @joey-yez, please note that we need to remove this note as this feature is moved to v6.4.

---
title: TiDB 6.3.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB v6.3.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2022

TiDB version: 6.3.0-DMR

In v6.3.0-DMR, the key new features and improvements are as follows:

> - TiKV/TiFlash 静态加密支持国密算法 SM4
> - TiDB 支持基于国密算法 SM3 插件的身份验证
> - SQL语句CREATE USER / ALTER USER支持ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK 选项
> - JSON 数据类型和 JSON 函数 GA
> - TiDB 支持 Null Aware Anti Join
> - 提供“执行时间”的细粒度指标
> - 分区表新增简化 Range 分区的语法糖衣，避免在 DDL 中枚举所有分区
> - Range Columns 分区方式在 PARTITION BY RANGE COLUMNS (column_list) 处支持定义多列

Author: ```suggestion
- TiKV and TiFlash support SM4 encryption at rest.
- TiDB supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm.
- The `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` statements support the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option.
- JSON data type and functions become generally available (GA).
- TiDB supports Null Aware Anti Join.
- TiDB provides execution time metrics at a finer granularity.
- A new syntactic sugar is added to simplify Range partition definitions.
- Range Columns partitioning supports defining multiple columns.
```

## New features

### SQL

> * 新增简化 Range 分区定义的语法糖衣 [#issue]() @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) **tw: hfxsd**
> 
>     [新的定义 Range 分区的方式](用户文档链接)，不需要枚举所有分区，可大幅度缩短现有 Range 分区表定义语句冗长的书写方式，语义与原有 Range 分区等价。
> 
> * Range Columns 分区方式支持定义多列 [#issue]() @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) **tw: hfxsd**
> 
>     支持 [PARTITION BY RANGE COLUMNS (column_list)](用户文档链接)，`column_list` 不再限定为单一列，基本功能与 MySQL 等同。
> 
> * 分区表 EXCHANGE PARTITION 功能 GA [#35996](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35996) @[ymkzpx](https://github.com/ymkzpx) **tw: hfxsd**
> 
>     [EXCHANGE PARTITION 功能](用户文档链接)通过性能和稳定性提升，由实验功能转为正式功能。

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* 新增简化 Range 分区定义的语法糖（syntactic sugar）[#issue]() @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

    [提供了新的定义 Range 分区的方式](/partitioned-table.md#range-interval-partitioning)，不需要枚举所有分区，可大幅度缩短现有 Range 分区表定义语句冗长的书写方式。语义与原有 Range 分区等价。

* Range Columns 分区方式支持定义多列 [#issue]() @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

    支持 [PARTITION BY RANGE COLUMNS (column_list)](/partitioned-table.md#range-columns-partitioning)，`column_list` 不再限定为单一列，基本功能与 MySQL 等同。

* 分区表 EXCHANGE PARTITION 功能 GA [#35996](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35996) @[ymkzpx](https://github.com/ymkzpx)

    [EXCHANGE PARTITION 功能]((/partitioned-table.md#partition-management)通过性能和稳定性提升，由实验功能转为正式功能。
```

> * 新增简化 Range 分区定义的语法糖（syntactic sugar）[#issue]() @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
> 
>     [提供了新的定义 Range 分区的方式](/partitioned-table.md#range-interval-partitioning)，不需要枚举所有分区，可大幅度缩短现有 Range 分区表定义语句冗长的书写方式。语义与原有 Range 分区等价。
> 
> * Range Columns 分区方式支持定义多列 [#issue]() @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
> 
>     支持 [PARTITION BY RANGE COLUMNS (column_list)](/partitioned-table.md#range-columns-partitioning)，`column_list` 不再限定为单一列，基本功能与 MySQL 等同。
> 
> * 分区表 EXCHANGE PARTITION 功能 GA [#35996](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35996) @[ymkzpx](https://github.com/ymkzpx)
> 
>     [EXCHANGE PARTITION 功能]((/partitioned-table.md#partition-management)通过性能和稳定性提升，由实验功能转为正式功能。

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Add a new syntactic sugar to simplify Range partition definitions [#issue]() @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

    [Provides INTERVAL partitioning as a new way of defining Range partitions](/partitioned-table.md#range-interval-partitioning). You do not need to enumerate all partitions, which drastically reduces the lengthy way of writing Range partition statements. The semantic is equivalent to the original Range partition.

* Range Columns partitioning supports defining multiple columns [#issue]() @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

    Support [PARTITION BY RANGE COLUMNS (column_list)](/partitioned-table.md#range-columns-partitioning). `column_list` is no longer limited to a single column. The basic feature is the same as MySQL.

* EXCHANGE PARTITION becomes GA [#35996](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35996) @[ymkzpx](https://github.com/ymkzpx)

    [EXCHANGE PARTITION]((/partitioned-table.md#partition-management) becomes GA after performance and stability improvements.
```

* 增加支持以下[窗口分析函数](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md)：[#5579](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5579) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) **tw：shichun-0415**

    * `LEAD`
    * `LAG`

> * `CREATE USER` 支持 `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` 选项 [#37051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37051) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* The `CREATE USER` statement supports the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option [#37051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37051) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**
```

>     在执行 [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) 创建用户时，允许使用 `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` 选项，限定被创建的用户是否被锁定。锁定后的用户不能正常登录数据库。

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    When you create a user using the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) statement, you can specify whether the created user is locked using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option. A locked user cannot log in to the database.
```

> * `ALTER USER` 支持 `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` 选项 [#37051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37051) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**
> 
>     对于已存在的用户，可以通过 [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md) 使用 `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` 选项，修改用户的锁定状态。

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* The `ALTER USER` statement supports the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option [#37051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37051) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**

    You can modify the lock state of an existing user using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option in the [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md) statement.
```

> * JSON 数据类型和 JSON 函数 GA [#36993](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36993) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei) **tw: qiancai**
> 
>     JSON 是一种流行的数据格式，被大量的程序设计所采用。TiDB 在早期版本就引入了 [JSON 支持](/data-type-json.md)， 兼容 MySQL 的 JSON 数据类型 和一部分 JSON 函数。在 v6.3.0 版本中，我们正式将这些功能 GA ，用户可以安全地在生产环境中使用 JSON 相关的功能。 JSON 功能的 GA，为 TiDB 提供了更丰富的数据类型支持，同时也进一步提升的 TiDB 对 MySQL 的兼容能力。

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* JSON data type and JSON functions become GA [#36993](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36993) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei) **tw: qiancai**

    JSON is a popular data format adopted by a large number of programs. TiDB has introduced the [JSON support](/data-type-json.md) as experimental since an earlier version, compatible with MySQL's JSON data type and some JSON functions. In v6.3.0, the JSON support becomes GA, providing TiDB with richer data types, and further improving TiDB compatibility with MySQL.
```

    TiDB v6.3.0 supports four regular expression functions, `REGEXP_INSTR()`, `REGEXP_LIKE()`, `REGEXP_REPLACE()`, and `REGEXP_SUBSTR()` introduced in MySQL 8.0, which support schema-based fuzzy query and regular replacement. For more details about the compatibility with MySQL, see [Regular expression compatibility with MySQL](/functions-and-operators/string-functions.md#regular-expression-compatibility-with-mysql).

### Security

* 静态加密 TiKV 支持国密算法 SM4 [#13041](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13041) @[jiayang-zheng](https://github.com/jiayang-zheng) **tw: TomShawn**

    TiKV 静态加密中新增[加密算法 SM4](/encryption-at-rest.md)，用户在配置静态加密时，支持配置 data-encryption-method 参数为 "sm4-ctr"，以启用基于国密算法SM4的静态加密能力。

* 静态加密 TiFlash 支持国密算法 SM4 [#5714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5714) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu) **tw: TomShawn**

    TiFlash 静态加密中新增[加密算法 SM4](/encryption-at-rest.md)，用户在配置静态加密时，支持配置 data-encryption-method 参数为 "sm4-ctr"，以启用基于国密算法SM4的静态加密能力。

* TiDB 支持国密算法 SM3 的身份验证 [#36192](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36192) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**

>     TiDB 身份验证新增基于国密算法 SM3 的插件 [tidb_sm3_password](/system-variables.md#default_authentication_plugin)，启用此插件后，用户密码将通过SM3进行加密存储和验证。

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    TiDB adds an authentication plugin [`tidb_sm3_password`](/system-variables.md#default_authentication_plugin) based on the SM3 algorithm. When this plugin is enabled, the user password is encrypted and validated using the SM3 algorithm.
```

> * JDBC 支持国密算法 SM3 的身份验证 [issue]() @[lastincisor](https://github.com/lastincisor) **tw：ran-huang**

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* JDBC supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm [issue]() @[lastincisor](https://github.com/lastincisor) **tw：ran-huang**
```

>     用户密码的身份验证需要客户端的支持，现在 [JDBC 支持国密算法 SM3](/develop/dev-guide-choose-driver-or-orm.md#java-drivers) 的能力，用户可以通过 JDBC 连接到 TiDB 使用国密算法 SM3 的身份验证能力。

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    Authenticating the user password needs client-side support. Now because [JDBC supports the SM3 algorithm](/develop/dev-guide-choose-driver-or-orm.md#java-drivers), you can connect to TiDB using SM3 authentication via JDBC.
```

### Observability

* 提供“执行时间”的细粒度指标 [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw: Oreoxmt**

    性能问题的诊断通常从时间入手。 对执行时间的细粒度观测能力，是衡量数据库可观测性的重要标准。 TiDB 在新版中正式提供了细化数据指标，用于[对执行时间进行细化观测](/latency-breakdown.md)。 通过完整而又细分的指标数据，用户可以清晰的了解数据库的主要的时间消耗，进而快速发现关键问题，节省故障诊断的时间。 “执行时间”的细粒度观测能力，使得 TiDB 的观测性迈上了一个新的台阶。

* 增强的 slow log 和 trace 语句 [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw: Oreoxmt**

    在新版本中 TiDB [增强了 slow log 的内容和 trace 命令的输出](/latency-breakdown.md)。用户可以观测到 SQL 语句执行过程中，从 tidb parse 到 kv rocksdb 落盘全链路的延迟数据，进一步增强 TiDB 的诊断能力。

> * Dashboard 中显示死锁的历史记录 [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **shichun-0415**
> 
>     新版本将死锁的历史记录加入到了 Dashboard 中。 当用户通过 Dashboard 的慢日志等手段发现某些 SQL 等待锁的时间较长的时候，Dashboard 上的死锁的历史记录有助于对问题的分析，提供了诊断的易用性。

Author: ```suggestion
* TiDB Dashboard provides deadlock history information [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw: shichun-0415**

    From v6.3.0, TiDB Dashboard will provide deadlock history. If you find excessively long SQL lock waiting by analyzing slow logs or other information on TiDB Dashboard, you can turn to deadlock history for problem locating, which delivers better diagnosis experience.
```

### Performance

> * TiFlash 调整 FastScan 功能使用方式（实验特性） [#5252](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5252) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan) **tw: hfxsd**
> 
>     TiFlash 从 v6.2.0 版本开始引入的快速扫描功能 (FastScan)，性能上符合预期，但是使用方式上缺乏灵活性。因此，TiFlash 在 v6.3.0 版本[调整 FastScan 功能的使用方式](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md)，停止使用对表设定是否开启 FastScan 功能的方式，改为使用系统变量 [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-从-v630-版本开始引入) 控制是否开启 FastScan 功能。
> 
>     从 v6.2.0 版本升级到 v6.3.0 版本时，在 v6.2.0 版本的所有 FastScan 设定将失效，需要重新使用变量方式进行 FastScan 设定，但不影响数据的正常读取。从更早版本升级到 v6.3.0 时，所有会话默认不开启 FastScan 功能，而是保持一致性的数据扫描功能。

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* TiFlash changes the way FastScan is used (experimental) [#5252](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5252) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

    FastScan, introduced in TiFlash starting with v6.2.0, performed as expected, but lacked flexibility in how it was used. Therefore, in v6.3.0 [the way FastScan is used has changed](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md). TiFlash does not support using the switch to control the FastScan feature. Instead, it uses the system variable [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630) to control whether to turn on the FastScan function.
    
    When you upgrade from v6.2.0 to v6.3.0, all FastScan settings in v6.2.0 will become invalid, but will not affect the normal reading of data. You need to set the variable [`tiflash_fastscan`]. When you upgrade from an earlier version to v6.3.0, the FastScan feature is not enabled by default for all sessions to keep data consistency.
```

* TiFlash 优化提升多并发场景下的数据扫描性能 [#5376](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5376) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin) **tw: hfxsd**

    TiFlash 通过合并相同数据的读取操作，减少对于相同数据的重复读取，优化了多并发任务情况下的资源开销，[提升多并发下的数据扫描性能](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#配置文件-tiflashtoml)。避免了以往在多并发任务下，如果涉及相同数据，同一份数据需要在每个任务中分别进行读取的情况，以及可能出现在同一时间内对相同数据进行多次读取的情况。

    该功能在 v6.2.0 版本以实验特性发布，并在 v6.3.0 版本作为正式功能发布。

> * TiFlash 副本同步性能优化 [#5237](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5237) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) **tw: hfxsd**
> 
>     TiFlash 使用 Raft 协议与 TiKV 进行副本数据同步。在 v6.3.0 版本之前，同步大量副本数据时往往需要比较长的时间。v6.3.0 版本优化了 TiFlash 副本同步机制，大幅度提升了副本同步速度。因此，使用 BR 恢复数据、使用 Lightning 导入数据，或全新增加 TiFlash 副本时，副本将更迅速地完成同步，用户可以更及时地使用 TiFlash 进行查询。此外，在 TiFlash 扩缩容或修改 TiFlash 副本数时，TiFlash 副本也将更快地达到安全、均衡的状态。

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Improve performance of TiFlash data replication [#5237](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5237) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) 

    TiFlash uses the Raft protocol for data replication with TiKV. Prior to v6.3.0, it often took long time to replicate large amounts of replica data. TiDB v6.3.0 optimizes the TiFlash data replication mechanism and significantly improves the replication speed. When you use BR to recover data, use TiDB Lightning to import data, or add new TiFlash replicas, the replicas can be replicated more quickly. You can query with TiFlash in a more timely manner. In addition, TiFlash replicas will also reach a secure and balanced state faster when you scale up, scale down, or modify the number of TiFlash replicas.
```

> * TiKV 日志循环使用 [#214](https://github.com/tikv/raft-engine/issues/214) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw：ran-huang**

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* TiKV supports log recycling [#214](https://github.com/tikv/raft-engine/issues/214) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw：ran-huang**
```

>     TiKV Raft Engine 默认开启[日志循环](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable-log-recycle-new-in-v630)功能。该特性显著降低 Raft 日志追加过程中的长尾延迟，提升了 TiKV 写入负载下的性能。

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    TiKV recycles log files in Raft Engine by default. This reduces the long tail latency during Raft log appending and improves performance under write workloads.
```

* TiDB 支持 Null Aware Anti Join [#issue]() @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) **tw: Oreoxmt**

    TiDB 在新版本中引入了新的连接类型 [Null Aware Anti Join (NAAJ)](/explain-subqueries.md#null-aware-semi-joinin-any-子查询)。 NAAJ 在集合操作时能够感知集合是否为空，或是否有空值，优化了一部分操作比如`IN`、`= ANY` 的执行效率，提升 SQL 性能。

* 增加优化器 hint 控制哈希连接的驱动端 [#issue]() @[Reminiscent](https://github.com/Reminiscent) **tw: TomShawn**

    在新版本中，优化器引入了两个新的 [hint `HASH_JOIN_BUILD()` 和 `HASH_JOIN_PROBE()`](/optimizer-hints.md) 用来指定哈希连接，并指定其驱动端和被驱动端。 在没有选到最优执行计划的情况下，提供了更丰富的干预手段。

> * 会话级允许 CTE 内联展开 [#36514](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36514) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520) **shichun-0415**
> 
>     在 v6.2.0 中， 我们引入在优化器提示 `MERGE` ， 允许对 CTE 内联进行展开，使得 CTE 查询结果的消费者能够在 TiFlash 内并行执行。 在版本 v6.3.0 中，我们添加了会话级变量 [`tidb_opt_force_inline_cte`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_force_inline_cte-从-v630-版本开始引入)，允许在会话级修改这个行为，提升了易用性。

Author: ```suggestion
* Support session-level CTE inline [#36514](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36514) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520) **tw: shichun-0415**

    TiDB v6.2.0 introduced the `MERGE` hint in optimizers to allow CTE inline, so that the consumers of a CTE query result can be executed in parallel in TiFlash. In v6.3.0, a session variable [`tidb_opt_force_inline_cte`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_force_inline_cte-new-in-v630) in introduced to allow CTE inline in sessions. This improves ease of use greatly.
```

### Transactions

> * 悲观事务可以延迟唯一性检查 [#36579](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36579) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw: qiancai**
> 
>     提供系统变量 `tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic` 来控制悲观事务中[唯一约束](/constraints.md#唯一约束)检查的时间点。当变量设为 `ON` 时，TiDB 会把加锁操作和唯一约束检测推迟到必要的时候进行，以此提升批量 DML 操作的性能。

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* Support deferring unique constraints in pessimistic transactions [#36579](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36579) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw: qiancai**

    You can use the [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`]([system-variables.md](/system-variables.md#) system variable to control when TiDB checks [unique constraints](/constraints.md#pessimistic-transactions) in pessimistic transactions. This variable is disabled by default. When the variable is set to `ON`, TiDB will defer locking operations and unique constraint checks in pessimistic transactions until necessary, thus improving the performance of bulk DML operations.
```

* 优化 Read-Committed 隔离级别中对 TSO 的获取 [#36812](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36812) @[TonsnakeLin](https://github.com/TonsnakeLin) **tw: TomShawn**

    在 Read-Committed 隔离级别中， 引入新的系统变量 [`tidb_rc_write_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_write_check_ts-从-v630-版本开始引入) 控制语句对 TSO 的获取方式。在 Plan Cache 命中的情况下，通过降低对 TSO 的获取频率提升批量 DML 的执行效率，降低跑批类任务的执行时间。

### Stability

* TiKV 后台 IO 任务限制增强 (TiKV I/O Rate Limiter) [#10867](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10867) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie) **tw：ran-huang**

>     改进算法，提供对[磁盘读 I/O 的动态限流能力](/tikv-configuration-file.md#storageio-rate-limit)。

Reviewer 9: Should be deleted

* 优化 `IN` 条件元素过多引发的大量内存消耗 [#30755](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30755) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw: TomShawn**

    当 SQL 中的 `IN` 条件包含的元素过多时，TiDB 在优化器构造扫描范围时可能会消耗大量的内存。在新版中，TiDB 引入了系统变量 [`tidb_opt_range_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_range_max_size-从-v630-版本开始引入) 实现对扫描范围的内存控制机制，对这类操作进行了优化，减少内存消耗，提升 SQL 执行效率和系统稳定性。

* 修改优化统计信息过期时的默认加载策略 [#issue]() @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw: TomShawn**

    在 v5.3.0 版本时，TiDB 引入系统变量 [`tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats-从-v530-版本开始引入) 控制优化器在统计信息过期时的行为，默认为 `ON`，即保持旧版本行为不变：当 SQL 涉及的对象的统计信息过期时，优化器认为该表上除总行数以外的统计信息不再可靠，转而使用 pseudo 统计信息。 经过一系列测试和用户实际场景分析，TiDB 在新版本中将  `tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats` 的默认值改为 `OFF`，即使统计信息过期，优化器也仍会使用该表上的统计信息，这有利于执行计划的稳定性。

> * TiKV Titan 关闭功能正式发布 [#issue]() @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie) **tw：ran-huang**

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* The feature of disabling Titan becomes GA [#issue]() @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie) **tw：ran-huang**
```

>     正式支持对在线 TiKV 节点[关闭 Titan 引擎](/titan-configuration#disable-titan)。

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    You can [disable Titan](/titan-configuration#disable-titan) for online TiKV nodes.
```

### Ease of use

* 优化 TiFlash 数据同步进度的准确性 [#4902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4902) @[hehechen](https://github.com/hehechen) **tw: qiancai**

    TiDB 的 `information_schema.tiflash_replica` 表中的 `PROGRESS` 字段表示对应表 TiFlash 副本与 TiKV 数据的同步进度。在之前的版本中，`PROCESS` 字段只显示创建 TiFlash 副本过程中的数据同步进度。当 TiFlash 副本创建完毕，进行数据导入后，该值不会更新数据同步进度。

    v6.3.0 版本改进了 TiFlash 副本数据同步进度更新机制，在创建 TiFlash 副本后，进行数据导入等操作，TiFlash 副本需要和 TiKV 数据进行同步时，[`information_schema.tiflash_replica` 表](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-replica.md)中的 `PROGRESS` 值将会更新，显示实际的数据同步进度。通过 TiFlash 数据同步进度的准确性优化，用户可以了解数据同步的实际进度，具有更好的使用体验。

### MySQL compatibility

> * 完善基于 SQL 的数据放置规则功能的兼容性 [#37171](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37171) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao) **tw: hfxsd**
> 
>     TiDB 在 v6.0.0 版本提供基于 SQL 的数据放置规则功能，但是由于实现机制冲突，该功能和构建 TiFlash 副本功能不兼容。v6.3.0 版本进行改进优化，[完善了这两个功能的兼容性](/placement-rules-in-sql.md#使用限制)。

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Improve compatibility of SQL-based data Placement Rules [#37171](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37171) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

    TiDB v6.0.0 provides SQL-based data Placement Rules. But this feature is not compatible with TiFlash due to conflicts in implementation mechanisms. TiDB v6.3.0 optimizes this feature, and [improves compatibility of SQL-based data Placement Rules and TiFlash](/placement-rules-in-sql.md#known-limitations). 
```

> * 优化 TiFlash 数据同步进度的准确性 [#4902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4902) @[hehechen](https://github.com/hehechen) **tw: qiancai**
> 
>     TiDB 的 `information_schema.tiflash_replica` 表中的 `PROGRESS` 字段表示对应表 TiFlash 副本与 TiKV 数据的同步进度。在之前的版本中，`PROCESS` 字段只显示创建 TiFlash 副本过程中的数据同步进度。当 TiFlash 副本创建完毕，进行数据导入后，该值不会更新数据同步进度。
> 
>     v6.3.0 版本改进了 TiFlash 副本数据同步进度更新机制，在创建 TiFlash 副本后，进行数据导入等操作，TiFlash 副本需要和 TiKV 数据进行同步时，[`information_schema.tiflash_replica` 表](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-replica.md)中的 `PROGRESS` 值将会更新，显示实际的数据同步进度。通过 TiFlash 数据同步进度的准确性优化，用户可以了解数据同步的实际进度，具有更好的使用体验。

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* Improve the accuracy of TiFlash data replication progress [#4902](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4902) @[hehechen](https://github.com/hehechen) **tw: qiancai**

    In TiDB, the `PROGRESS` field of the `information_schema.tiflash_replica` table is used to indicate the progress of data replication from the corresponding tables in TiKV to the TiFlash replicas. In earlier TiDB versions, the `PROCESS` field only provides the progress of data replication during the creation of the TiFlash replicas. After a TiFlash replica is created, if new data is imported to a corresponding table in TiKV, this field will not be updated to show the replication progress from TiKV to TiFlash for the new data. 

    In v6.3.0, TiDB improves the update mechanism of data replication progress for TiFlash replicas. After a TiFlash replica is created, if new data is imported to a corresponding table in TiKV,  the `PROGRESS` value in the [`information_schema.tiflash_replica`](/information -schema/information-schema-tiflash-replica.md) table will be updated to show the actual replication progress from TiKV to TiFlash for the new data. With this improvement, you can easily view the actual progress of TiFlash data replication.
```

### Backup and restore

> * PITR 支持 GCS 和 Azure Blob Storage 作为备份存储 [#issue]() @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) **tw: shichun-0415**
> 
>     PITR 支持[以 GCS 或 Azure Blob Storage 作为备份存储目标]()。部署在 GCP 或者 Azure 上的用户，升级 TiDB 集群到 v6.3.0 后，就可以使用 PITR 功能了。
> 
> * BR 支持 AWS S3 Object Lock [#issue]() @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) **tw: shichun-0415**
> 
>     用户在 S3 开启 [Object Lock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lock.html) 后，可以防止备份数据写入后被修改或者删除。

Author: ```suggestion
* PITR supports GCS and Azure Blob Storage as backup storage [#issue]() @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) **tw: shichun-0415**

    PITR supports [GCS and Azure Blob Storage as backup storage](). If your TiDB is deployed on GCP or Azure, you can use the PITR feature after upgrading your cluster to v6.3.0.

* BR supports AWS S3 Object Lock [#issue]() @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) **tw: shichun-0415**

    After enabling [Object Lock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lock.html) , you can protect backup data from being tampered with or deleted.
```

### Data migration

> * TiDB Lightning 支持将 Apache Hive 导出的 Parquet 文件导入到 TiDB [#issue]() @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou) **tw：ran-huang**

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* TiDB Lightning supports importing Parquet files exported by Apache Hive into TiDB [#issue]() @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou) **tw：ran-huang**
```

>     TiDB Lightning [支持将 Apache Hive 导出的 Parquet 文件导入到 TiDB](migrate-from-parquet-files-to-tidb.md)，从而实现 Hive 到 TiDB 之间的数据流转。

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    TiDB Lightning supports importing Parquet files exported by Apache Hive into TiDB, thereby achieving data migration from Hive to TiDB.
```

>     In v6.3.0, TiDB improves the update mechanism of data replication progress for TiFlash replicas. After a TiFlash replica is created, if new data is imported to a corresponding table in TiKV,  the `PROGRESS` value in the [`information_schema.tiflash_replica`](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-replica.md) table will be updated to show the actual replication progress from TiKV to TiFlash for the new data. With this improvement, you can easily view the actual progress of TiFlash data replication.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    Since v6.3.0, TiDB improves the update mechanism of data replication progress for TiFlash replicas. After a TiFlash replica is created, if new data is imported to a corresponding table in TiKV,  the `PROGRESS` value in the [`information_schema.tiflash_replica`](/information-schema/information-schema-tiflash-replica.md) table will be updated to show the actual replication progress from TiKV to TiFlash for the new data. With this improvement, you can easily view the actual progress of TiFlash data replication.
```

> * DM 支持对同步到 TiDB 的表增加字段并对该字段赋值 [#3262](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3262), [#3340](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3340) @[yufan022](https://github.com/yufan022) **tw：ran-huang**
> 
>     [DM 支持对同步到 TiDB 的表增加字段并对该字段赋值](用户文档链接)。在上游分库分表合并到下游TiDB的场景，可以用于区分目标表的记录是来自于上游那个分库分表。

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* DM supports adding a field to a table migrated to TiDB and assigning values to the field [#3262](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3262), [#3340](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3340) @[yufan022](https://github.com/yufan022) **tw：ran-huang**

    DM supports [adding a field to a table migrated to TiDB and assigning values to the field](link). When you merge and migrate MySQL shards to TiDB, you can use the field to distinguish which shard the record is migrated from.
```

### TiDB data share subscription

> * TiCDC 支持对多个异地目标数据源进行数据复制的复杂部署形态 [#issue]() @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy) **tw：ran-huang**
> 
>     为了提供一套 TiDB 集群的数据能复制到多个不同的异地数据系统的能力，自 v6.3.0 开始，TiCDC 节点可以[部署到多个不同的异地的机房](用户文档链接)中，来分别负责对应机房的数据复制任务，以支撑各种复杂的异地数据复制使用场景和部署形态。

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* TiCDC supports a deployment topology that can replicate data from multiple geo-distributed data sources [#issue]() @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy) **tw：ran-huang**

    To support replicating data from a single TiDB cluster to multiple geo-distributed data systems, starting from v6.3.0, [TiCDC can be deployed in multiple IDCs](link) to replicate data for each IDC. This feature helps deliver the capability of geo-distributed data replication and deployment topology.
```

* TiCDC 支持维护上下游数据一致性快照 (Sync point) [#issue]() @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw: TomShawn**

    在灾备复制场景下，[TiCDC 支持周期性的维护一个下游数据快照](用户文档链接)，使得该下游快照能保持与上游数据的快照一致性。借助此能力，TiCDC 能更好的匹配读写分离应用场景，帮助用户降本增效。

> 

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion

* TiCDC supports graceful upgrade [#4757](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

    When TiCDC is deployed using TiUP (>=v1.11.0) or TiDB Operator (>=v1.3.8), you can gracefully upgrade the TiCDC cluster. During the upgrade, data replication latency is kept as low as 30 seconds. This improves stability, empowering TiCDC to better support latency-sensitive applications.

```

* Improve the performance of adding indexes and reduce the impact on DML transactions [#35983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35983) @[benjamin2037](https://github.com/benjamin2037) **tw: Oreoxmt**

    To improve the speed of backfilling when creating an index, TiDB v6.3.0 introduces the acceleration of `ADD INDEX` and `CREATE INDEX` DDL operations using the [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) system variable. When this feature is enabled, the TiDB performance of adding indexes is about three times faster than the original.

* TiDB supports more regular expressions [#23881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23881) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker) **tw: Oreoxmt**

    TiDB v6.3.0 supports four regular expression functions, `REGEXP_INSTR()`, `REGEXP_LIKE()`, `REGEXP_REPLACE()`, and `REGEXP_SUBSTR()` introduced in MySQL 8.0, which support schema-based fuzzy query and regular replacement. For more details about the compatibility with MySQL, see [Regular expression compatibility with MySQL](/functions-and-operators/string-functions.md#regular-expression-compatibility-with-mysql).

### Security

> * 静态加密 TiKV 支持国密算法 SM4 [#13041](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13041) @[jiayang-zheng](https://github.com/jiayang-zheng) **tw: TomShawn**
> 
>     TiKV 静态加密中新增[加密算法 SM4](/encryption-at-rest.md)，用户在配置静态加密时，支持配置 data-encryption-method 参数为 "sm4-ctr"，以启用基于国密算法SM4的静态加密能力。
> 
> * 静态加密 TiFlash 支持国密算法 SM4 [#5714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5714) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu) **tw: TomShawn**
> 
>     TiFlash 静态加密中新增[加密算法 SM4](/encryption-at-rest.md)，用户在配置静态加密时，支持配置 data-encryption-method 参数为 "sm4-ctr"，以启用基于国密算法SM4的静态加密能力。

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* TiKV supports the SM4 algorithm for encryption at rest. [#13041](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13041) @[jiayang-zheng](https://github.com/jiayang-zheng)

    TiKV 的静态加密新增 [SM4 算法](/encryption-at-rest.md)，用户在配置静态加密时，可将 "data-encryption-method" 参数设为 "sm4-ctr"，以启用基于国密算法 SM4 的静态加密能力。
    Add the [SM4 algorithm](/encryption-at-rest.md) for TiKV encryption at rest. When you configure encryption at rest, you can enable the SM4 encryption capacity by setting the value of the "data-encryption-method" configuration to "sm4-ctr".

* TiFlash supports the SM4 algorithm for encryption at rest. [#5714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5714) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

    Add the [SM4 algorithm](/encryption-at-rest.md) for TiFlash encryption at rest. When you configure encryption at rest, you can enable the SM4 encryption capacity by setting the value of the "data-encryption-method" configuration to "sm4-ctr".
```

    该功能在 v6.2.0 版本以实验特性发布，并在 v6.3.0 版本作为正式功能发布。

* TiFlash 副本同步性能优化 [#5237](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5237) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish) **tw: hfxsd**

    TiFlash 使用 Raft 协议与 TiKV 进行副本数据同步。在 v6.3.0 版本之前，同步大量副本数据时往往需要比较长的时间。v6.3.0 版本优化了 TiFlash 副本同步机制，大幅度提升了副本同步速度。因此，使用 BR 恢复数据、使用 Lightning 导入数据，或全新增加 TiFlash 副本时，副本将更迅速地完成同步，用户可以更及时地使用 TiFlash 进行查询。此外，在 TiFlash 扩缩容或修改 TiFlash 副本数时，TiFlash 副本也将更快地达到安全、均衡的状态。

* TiKV supports log recycling [#214](https://github.com/tikv/raft-engine/issues/214) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw：ran-huang**

    TiKV recycles log files in Raft Engine by default. This reduces the long tail latency during Raft log appending and improves performance under write workloads.

* TiDB 支持 Null Aware Anti Join [#issue]() @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) **tw: Oreoxmt**

    TiDB 在新版本中引入了新的连接类型 [Null Aware Anti Join (NAAJ)](/explain-subqueries.md#null-aware-semi-joinin-any-子查询)。 NAAJ 在集合操作时能够感知集合是否为空，或是否有空值，优化了一部分操作比如`IN`、`= ANY` 的执行效率，提升 SQL 性能。

> * 增加优化器 hint 控制哈希连接的驱动端 [#issue]() @[Reminiscent](https://github.com/Reminiscent) **tw: TomShawn**
> 
>     在新版本中，优化器引入了两个新的 [hint `HASH_JOIN_BUILD()` 和 `HASH_JOIN_PROBE()`](/optimizer-hints.md) 用来指定哈希连接，并指定其驱动端和被驱动端。 在没有选到最优执行计划的情况下，提供了更丰富的干预手段。

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* Add optimizer hints to control the build end of Hash Join [#issue]() @[Reminiscent](https://github.com/Reminiscent) **tw: TomShawn**

    在新版本中，优化器引入了两个新的 [hint `HASH_JOIN_BUILD()` 和 `HASH_JOIN_PROBE()`](/optimizer-hints.md) 用来指定哈希连接，并指定其驱动端和被驱动端。 在没有选到最优执行计划的情况下，提供了更丰富的干预手段。
    In v6.3.0, the TiDB optimizer introduces 2 hints, `HASH_JOIN_BUILD()` and `HASH_JOIN_PROBE()`, to specify the Hash Join, its probe end, and its build end. When the optimizer fails to select the optimal execution plan, you can use these hints to intervene with the plan. 
```

* 会话级允许 CTE 内联展开 [#36514](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36514) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520) **shichun-0415**

    在 v6.2.0 中， 我们引入在优化器提示 `MERGE` ， 允许对 CTE 内联进行展开，使得 CTE 查询结果的消费者能够在 TiFlash 内并行执行。 在版本 v6.3.0 中，我们添加了会话级变量 [`tidb_opt_force_inline_cte`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_force_inline_cte-从-v630-版本开始引入)，允许在会话级修改这个行为，提升了易用性。

### Transactions

* Support deferring unique constraints in pessimistic transactions [#36579](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36579) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw: qiancai**

    You can use the [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-new-in-v630) system variable to control when TiDB checks [unique constraints](/constraints.md#pessimistic-transactions) in pessimistic transactions. This variable is disabled by default. When the variable is set to `ON`, TiDB will defer locking operations and unique constraint checks in pessimistic transactions until necessary, thus improving the performance of bulk DML operations.

> * 优化 Read-Committed 隔离级别中对 TSO 的获取 [#36812](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36812) @[TonsnakeLin](https://github.com/TonsnakeLin) **tw: TomShawn**
> 
>     在 Read-Committed 隔离级别中， 引入新的系统变量 [`tidb_rc_write_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_write_check_ts-从-v630-版本开始引入) 控制语句对 TSO 的获取方式。在 Plan Cache 命中的情况下，通过降低对 TSO 的获取频率提升批量 DML 的执行效率，降低跑批类任务的执行时间。

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* Optimize the way of fetching TSO in the Read-Committed isolation level [#36812](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36812) @[TonsnakeLin](https://github.com/TonsnakeLin) **tw: TomShawn**

    In the Read-Committed isolation level, the system variable [`tidb_rc_write_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_write_check_ts-new-in-v630) is introduced to control how TSO is fetched. In the case of Plan Cache hit, TiDB improves the execution efficiency of batch DML statements by reducing the frequency of fetching TSO, and reduces the execution time of running tasks in batches.
```

### Stability

* TiKV 后台 IO 任务限制增强 (TiKV I/O Rate Limiter) [#10867](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10867) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie) **tw：ran-huang**

    改进算法，提供对[磁盘读 I/O 的动态限流能力](/tikv-configuration-file.md#storageio-rate-limit)。

> * 优化 `IN` 条件元素过多引发的大量内存消耗 [#30755](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30755) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw: TomShawn**
> 
>     当 SQL 中的 `IN` 条件包含的元素过多时，TiDB 在优化器构造扫描范围时可能会消耗大量的内存。在新版中，TiDB 引入了系统变量 [`tidb_opt_range_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_range_max_size-从-v630-版本开始引入) 实现对扫描范围的内存控制机制，对这类操作进行了优化，减少内存消耗，提升 SQL 执行效率和系统稳定性。
> 
> * 修改优化统计信息过期时的默认加载策略 [#issue]() @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw: TomShawn**
> 
>     在 v5.3.0 版本时，TiDB 引入系统变量 [`tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats-从-v530-版本开始引入) 控制优化器在统计信息过期时的行为，默认为 `ON`，即保持旧版本行为不变：当 SQL 涉及的对象的统计信息过期时，优化器认为该表上除总行数以外的统计信息不再可靠，转而使用 pseudo 统计信息。 经过一系列测试和用户实际场景分析，TiDB 在新版本中将  `tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats` 的默认值改为 `OFF`，即使统计信息过期，优化器也仍会使用该表上的统计信息，这有利于执行计划的稳定性。

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* Mitigate the issue that too many elements in the `IN` condition cause huge memory consumption [#30755](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30755) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw: TomShawn**

    When the `IN` condition in a SQL statement contains too many elements, TiDB might consume a lot of memory when the optimizer constructs the scan range. In v6.3.0, TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_opt_range_max_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_range_max_size-new-in-v630) to control the memory usage for scan range and to reduce memory consumption, which makes SQL execution more efficient and the system more stable.

* Modify the default policy of loading statistics when statistics become outdated [#issue]() @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw: TomShawn**

    在 v5.3.0 版本时，TiDB 引入系统变量 [`tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats-从-v530-版本开始引入) 控制优化器在统计信息过期时的行为，默认为 `ON`，即保持旧版本行为不变：当 SQL 涉及的对象的统计信息过期时，优化器认为该表上除总行数以外的统计信息不再可靠，转而使用 pseudo 统计信息。 经过一系列测试和用户实际场景分析，TiDB 在新版本中将  `tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats` 的默认值改为 `OFF`，即使统计信息过期，优化器也仍会使用该表上的统计信息，这有利于执行计划的稳定性。
    In v5.3.0, TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats-new-in-v530) to control how the optimizer behaves when the statistics become outdated. The default value is `ON`, which means keeping the behavior of the old version: When statistics on objects involved in SQL are outdated, the optimizer considers that statistics (other than the total number of rows on the table) are no longer reliable and uses pseudo statistics instead. After tests and analyses of actual user scenarios, the default value of `tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats` is changed to `OFF` in v6.3.0. Even if the statistics become outdated, the optimizer will still use the statistics on the table, which is good for the execution program stability.
```

    TiDB Lightning supports importing Parquet files exported by Apache Hive into TiDB, thereby achieving data migration from Hive to TiDB.

* DM supports adding a field to a table migrated to TiDB and assigning values to the field [#3262](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3262), [#3340](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3340) @[yufan022](https://github.com/yufan022) **tw：ran-huang**

    DM supports [adding a field to a table migrated to TiDB and assigning values to the field](link). When you merge and migrate MySQL shards to TiDB, you can use the field to distinguish which shard the record is migrated from.

### TiDB data share subscription

* TiCDC supports a deployment topology that can replicate data from multiple geo-distributed data sources [#issue]() @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy) **tw：ran-huang**

    To support replicating data from a single TiDB cluster to multiple geo-distributed data systems, starting from v6.3.0, [TiCDC can be deployed in multiple IDCs](link) to replicate data for each IDC. This feature helps deliver the capability of geo-distributed data replication and deployment topology.

> * TiCDC 支持维护上下游数据一致性快照 (Sync point) [#issue]() @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw: TomShawn**
> 
>     在灾备复制场景下，[TiCDC 支持周期性的维护一个下游数据快照](用户文档链接)，使得该下游快照能保持与上游数据的快照一致性。借助此能力，TiCDC 能更好的匹配读写分离应用场景，帮助用户降本增效。

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* TiCDC supports keeping the snapshots consistent between the upstream and the downstream (sync point) [#issue]() @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw: TomShawn**

    In the scenarios of data replication for disaster recovery, TiCDC supports periodically maintaining a downstream data snapshot so that the downstream snapshot is consistent with the upstream snapshot. With this feature, TiCDC can better match the scenarios where reads and writes are separate, and help you lower the cost.
```

* Provide lightweight metadata lock to improve the DML success rate during DDL change (experimental) [#37275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37275) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) **tw: Oreoxmt**

    TiDB uses the online asynchronous schema change algorithm to support changing metadata objects. When a transaction is executed, the transaction obtains the corresponding metadata snapshot at transaction start. If the metadata is changed during transaction, to ensure the data consistency, TiDB returns an `Information schema is changed` error and the transaction fails to commit. To solve the problem, TiDB v6.3.0 introduces [metadata lock](/metadata-lock.md) into the online DDL algorithm. To avoid most DML errors, TiDB coordinates the priority of DMLs and DDLs during table metadata change, and makes executing DDLs wait for the DMLs with old metadata to commit.

* Improve the performance of adding indexes and reduce its impact on DML transactions [#35983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35983) @[benjamin2037](https://github.com/benjamin2037) **tw: Oreoxmt**

>     To improve the speed of backfilling when creating an index, TiDB v6.3.0 accelerates the `ADD INDEX` and `CREATE INDEX` DDL operations when the [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) system variable is enabled. The performance of adding indexes is about three times faster than the original when the feature is enabled.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    To improve the speed of backfilling when creating an index, TiDB v6.3.0 accelerates the `ADD INDEX` and `CREATE INDEX` DDL operations when the [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) system variable is enabled. When the feature is enabled, the performance of adding indexes is about three times faster than previously.
```

* Disabling Titan becomes GA @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)

    You can [disable Titan](/storage-engine/titan-configuration.md#disable-titan) for online TiKV nodes.

* Use `static` partition pruning when GlobalStats are not ready [#37535](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37535) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)

    When [`dynamic pruning`](/partitioned-table.md#dynamic-pruning-mode) is enabled, the optimizer selects execution plans based on [GlobalStats](/statistics.md#collect-statistics-of-partitioned-tables-in-dynamic-pruning-mode). Before GlobalStats are fully collected, using pseudo statistics might cause performance regression. In v6.3.0, this issue is addressed by maintaining the `static` mode if you enable dynamic pruning before GlobalStats are collected. TiDB remains in the `static` mode until GlobalStats are collected. This ensures performance stability when you change the partition pruning settings.

### Ease of use

> * Improve compatibility of SQL-based data Placement Rules [#37171](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37171) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
> 
>     TiDB v6.0.0 provides SQL-based data Placement Rules. But this feature is not compatible with TiFlash due to conflicts in implementation mechanisms. TiDB v6.3.0 optimizes this feature, and [improves compatibility of SQL-based data Placement Rules and TiFlash](/placement-rules-in-sql.md#known-limitations).

Author: ```suggestion
* Address the conflict between SQL-based data Placement Rules and TiFlash replicas [#37171](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37171) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

    TiDB v6.0.0 provides SQL-based data Placement Rules. But this feature conflicts with TiFlash replicas due to implementation issues. TiDB v6.3.0 optimizes the implementation mechanisms, and [resolves the conflict between SQL-based data Placement Rules and TiFlash](/placement-rules-in-sql.md#known-limitations).
```

    - Fix the issue of incorrect TiDB status that might appear on startup in some extreme cases [#36791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36791) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
    - Fix the issue that `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.VARIABLES_INFO` does not comply with security enhanced mode (SEM) [#37586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37586) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - Fix the issue that casting string to string goes wrong in queries with `UNION` [#31678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31678) @[cbcwestwolf](https://github.com/cbcwestwolf)
    - Fix the wrong result that occurs when enabling dynamic mode in partitioned tables for TiFlash [#37254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37254) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Fix the issue that the cast and comparison between binary strings and JSON in TiDB are incompatible with MySQL [#31918](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31918) [#25053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25053) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

>     - Fix the issue that `JSON_OBJECTAGG ` and `JSON_ARRAYAGG` in TiDB are not compatible with MySQL on binary values [#25053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25053) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `JSON_OBJECTAGG` and `JSON_ARRAYAGG` in TiDB are not compatible with MySQL on binary values [#25053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25053) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

- A new syntactic sugar is added to simplify Range partition definitions.
- Range COLUMNS partitioning supports defining multiple columns.

## New features

### SQL

* Add a new syntactic sugar (Range INTERVAL partitioning) to simplify Range partition definitions (experimental) [#35683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35683) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

    TiDB provides [INTERVAL partitioning](/partitioned-table.md#range-interval-partitioning) as a new way of defining Range partitions. You do not need to enumerate all partitions, which drastically reduces the length of Range partitioning DDL statements. The syntax is equivalent to that of the original Range partitioning.

* Range COLUMNS partitioning supports defining multiple columns [#36636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36636) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

    TiDB supports [PARTITION BY RANGE COLUMNS (column_list)](/partitioned-table.md#range-columns-partitioning). `column_list` is no longer limited to a single column. The basic feature is the same as MySQL.

* EXCHANGE PARTITION becomes GA [#35996](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35996) @[ymkzpx](https://github.com/ymkzpx)

>     [EXCHANGE PARTITION](/partitioned-table.md#partition-management) becomes GA after performance and stability improvements.

Reviewer 10: 这里写一句就可以了？
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/41534398/193014736-8bdc1939-13be-4fe8-be7e-c7f9f0edf3f6.png)

Author: Fixed in [5646088](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10249/commits/56460886ae629b5756facda11b1a6d6f819747bb)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/89768198/193029352-7adbf116-5840-48c5-9cbd-50bd071cea90.png)

    When you create a user using the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) statement, you can specify whether the created user is locked using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option. A locked user cannot log in to the database.

    You can modify the lock state of an existing user using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option in the [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md) statement.

* JSON data type and JSON functions become GA [#36993](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36993) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei)

    JSON is a popular data format adopted by a large number of programs. TiDB has introduced the [JSON support](/data-type-json.md) as an experimental feature since an earlier version, compatible with MySQL's JSON data type and some JSON functions.

    In TiDB v6.3.0, the JSON data type and functions become GA, which enriches TiDB’s data types, supports using JSON functions in [expression indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#expression-index) and [generated-columns](/generated-columns.md), and further improves TiDB’s compatibility with MySQL.

### Backup and restore

> * PITR supports GCS and Azure Blob Storage as backup storages @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau)

Reviewer 10: IMO, it looks a bit redundant.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/41534398/193015634-5a5ed296-e673-4dc3-85d0-d547191e3c23.png)

Author: Fixed in [5646088](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10249/commits/56460886ae629b5756facda11b1a6d6f819747bb)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/89768198/193028922-e5b643a7-2de4-4e24-b42e-86dc32099f0b.png)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - Improve compatibility with MySQL 8.0 as data source [#6448](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6448) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Optimize DDL by executing DDL asynchronously when encounter "invalid connection" [#4689](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4689) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Add query parameters for S3 external storage URL to support accessing the S3 data in another account by assuming a given role [#36891](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36891) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - Fix the issue that the privilege check is skipped for `PREPARE` statements [#35784](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35784) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
    - Fix the issue that the system variable `tidb_enable_noop_variable` can be set to `WARN` [#36647](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36647) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

>     - Fix the issue that when an expression index is defined, the `ORDINAL_POSITION` column of the `INFORMAITON_SCHEMA`.`COLUMNS` table might be incorrect [#31200](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31200) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that when an expression index is defined, the `ORDINAL_POSITION` column of the `INFORMAITON_SCHEMA.COLUMNS` table might be incorrect [#31200](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31200) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)
```

    - Fix the issue that querying `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` returns an incorrect result @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
    - Fix the issue that the `EXPLAIN` query on views does not check privileges [#34326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34326) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that JSON `null` cannot be updated to `NULL` [#37852](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37852) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that `row_count` of DDL jobs is inaccurate [#25968](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25968) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
    - Fix the issue that `FLASHBACK TABLE` does not work properly [#37386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37386) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the issue of failing to handle `prepared` statement flags in the typical MySQL protocol [#36731](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36731) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - Fix the issue of incorrect TiDB status that might appear on startup in some extreme cases [#36791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36791) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)

>     - Fix the issue that `information_schema.variables_info` does not comply with security enhanced mode (SEM) [#37586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37586) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.VARIABLES_INFO` does not comply with security enhanced mode (SEM) [#37586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37586) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
```

    - Fix the issue that casting string to string goes wrong in queries with `UNION` [#31678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31678) @[cbcwestwolf](https://github.com/cbcwestwolf)
    - Fix the wrong result that occurs when enabling dynamic mode in partitioned tables for TiFlash [#37254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37254) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Fix the issue that the cast and comparison between binary strings and JSON in TiDB are incompatible with MySQL [#31918](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31918) [#25053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25053) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

>     - Fix the issue that `json_objectagg` and `json_arrayagg` in TiDB are not compatible with MySQL on binary values [#25053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25053) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `JSON_OBJECTAGG ` and `JSON_ARRAYAGG` in TiDB are not compatible with MySQL on binary values [#25053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25053) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

    - Fix incompatibility with MySQL of comparison between JSON bool and other JSON value [#13386](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13386) [#37481](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37481) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

+ PD

    - Fix PD panics caused by the issue that gRPC handles errors inappropriately when `enable-forwarding` is enabled [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Fix the issue that unhealthy Region might cause PD panic [#5491](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5491) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Fix the bug that the TiFlash learner replica might not be created [#5401](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5401) @[HunDunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix a bug that the window function might cause TiFlash to crash when the query is canceled [#5814](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5814) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

>     - Fix a bug that wrong data input for `date(CAST(value AS DATETIME))` causing high TiFlash sys CPU [#5097](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5097) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that wrong data input for `CAST(value AS DATETIME)` causing high TiFlash sys CPU [#5097](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5097) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
```
中英文不一致

>     - Fix the issue that the result of `cast(Real/Decimal)AsTime` is inconsistent with MySQL [#3779](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3779) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the result of `CAST(Real/Decimal)AsTime` is inconsistent with MySQL [#3779](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3779) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)
```

        - Fix the issue that when `collation_compatible` is set to `"strict"`, DM might generate SQL with duplicated collations [#6832](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6832) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Reduce the appearance of the warning message "found error when get timezone from binlog status_vars" in DM-worker log [#6628](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6628) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001)
        - Fix the issue that latin1 data might be corrupted during replication [#7028](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7028) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not support columns starting with slash, number, or non-ascii characters in Parquet files [#36980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36980) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

## Contributors

We would like to thank the following contributors from the TiDB community:

- @[An-DJ](https://github.com/An-DJ)
- @[AnnieoftheStars](https://github.com/AnnieoftheStars)
- @[AntiTopQuark](https://github.com/AntiTopQuark)
- @[blacktear23](https://github.com/blacktear23)

> - @[BurtonQin](https://github.com/BurtonQin): First-time contributor

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
- @[BurtonQin](https://github.com/BurtonQin) (First-time contributor)
```

---
title: TiDB 6.3.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB v6.3.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2022

TiDB version: 6.3.0-DMR

In v6.3.0-DMR, the key new features and improvements are as follows:

- TiKV support SM4 encryption at rest.
- TiDB supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm.
- The `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` statements support the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option.
- JSON data type and functions become generally available (GA).
- TiDB supports null-aware anti join.
- TiDB provides execution time metrics at a finer granularity.
- A new syntactic sugar is added to simplify Range partition definitions.
- Range COLUMNS partitioning supports defining multiple columns.

## New features

### SQL

* Add a new syntactic sugar (Range INTERVAL partitioning) to simplify Range partition definitions [#35683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35683) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

>     [Provide INTERVAL partitioning as a new way of defining Range partitions](/partitioned-table.md#range-interval-partitioning). You do not need to enumerate all partitions, which drastically reduces the lengthy way of writing Range partition statements. The syntax is equivalent to the original Range partition.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    Provide [INTERVAL partitioning](/partitioned-table.md#range-interval-partitioning) as a new way of defining Range partitions. You do not need to enumerate all partitions, which drastically reduces the length of Range partitioning DDL statements. The syntax is equivalent to the original Range partitioning syntax.
```

Reviewer 8: "reduces the lengthy way" looks confusing.

---
title: TiDB 6.3.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB v6.3.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2022

TiDB version: 6.3.0-DMR

In v6.3.0-DMR, the key new features and improvements are as follows:

- TiKV and TiFlash support SM4 encryption at rest.
- TiDB supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm.
- The `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` statements support the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option.
- JSON data type and functions become generally available (GA).
- TiDB supports null-aware anti join.
- TiDB provides execution time metrics at a finer granularity.
- A new syntactic sugar is added to simplify Range partition definitions.
- Range COLUMNS partitioning supports defining multiple columns.

## New features

### SQL

* Add a new syntactic sugar (Range INTERVAL partitioning) to simplify Range partition definitions [#35683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35683) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

>     [Provides INTERVAL partitioning as a new way of defining Range partitions](/partitioned-table.md#range-interval-partitioning). You do not need to enumerate all partitions, which drastically reduces the lengthy way of writing Range partition statements. The semantic is equivalent to the original Range partition.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    [Provide INTERVAL partitioning as a new way of defining Range partitions](/partitioned-table.md#range-interval-partitioning). You do not need to enumerate all partitions, which drastically reduces the lengthy way of writing Range partition statements. The semantic is equivalent to the original Range partition.
```

    [EXCHANGE PARTITION](/partitioned-table.md#partition-management) becomes GA after performance and stability improvements.

* TiDB supports two more [window functions](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md) [#5579](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5579) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) **tw：shichun-0415**

    * `LEAD()`
    * `LAG()`

* The `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` statements support the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option [#37051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37051) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**

    When you create a user using the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) statement, you can specify whether the created user is locked using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option. A locked user cannot log in to the database.

    You can modify the lock state of an existing user using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option in the [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md) statement.

* JSON data type and JSON functions become GA [#36993](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36993) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei) **tw: qiancai**

>     JSON is a popular data format adopted by a large number of programs. TiDB has introduced the [JSON support](/data-type-json.md) as experimental since an earlier version, compatible with MySQL's JSON data type and some JSON functions. In v6.3.0, the JSON support becomes GA, providing TiDB with richer data types, and further improving TiDB compatibility with MySQL.

Reviewer 7: The Chinese version is updated.

>     JSON is a popular data format adopted by a large number of programs. TiDB has introduced the [JSON support](/data-type-json.md) as experimental since an earlier version, compatible with MySQL's JSON data type and some JSON functions. In v6.3.0, the JSON support becomes GA, providing TiDB with richer data types, and further improving TiDB compatibility with MySQL.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    JSON is a popular data format adopted by a large number of programs. JSON is a popular data format adopted by a large number of programs. TiDB has introduced the [JSON support](/data-type-json.md) as an experimental feature since an earlier version, compatible with MySQL's JSON data type and some JSON functions. 

In v6.3.0, the JSON data type and functions become GA in TiDB, which enriches TiDB’s data types, supports using JSON functions in [expression indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#expression-index) and [generated-columns](/generated-columns.md), and further improves TiDB’s compatibility with MySQL.
```

* Provide lightweight metadata lock to improve the DML success rate during DDL change (experimental) [#37275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37275) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) **tw: Oreoxmt**

>     TiDB uses the online asynchronous schema change algorithm to support changing metadata objects. When a transaction is executed, it obtains the corresponding metadata snapshot at the transaction start. If the metadata is changed during a transaction, to ensure data consistency, TiDB returns an `Information schema is changed` error and the transaction fails to commit. To solve the problem, TiDB v6.3.0 introduces [metadata lock](/metadata-lock.md) into the online DDL algorithm. To avoid most DML errors, TiDB coordinates the priority of DMLs and DDLs during table metadata change and makes executing DDLs wait for the DMLs with old metadata to commit.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    TiDB uses the online asynchronous schema change algorithm to support changing metadata objects. When a transaction is executed, it obtains the corresponding metadata snapshot at the transaction start. If the metadata is changed during a transaction, to ensure data consistency, TiDB returns an `Information schema is changed` error and the transaction fails to commit. To solve the problem, TiDB v6.3.0 introduces [metadata lock](/metadata-lock.md) into the online DDL algorithm. To avoid DML errors whenever possible, TiDB coordinates the priority of DMLs and DDLs during table metadata change and makes executing DDLs wait for the DMLs with old metadata to commit.
```

* Improve the performance of adding indexes and reduce its impact on DML transactions [#35983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35983) @[benjamin2037](https://github.com/benjamin2037) **tw: Oreoxmt**

>     To improve the speed of backfilling when creating an index, TiDB v6.3.0 accelerates the `ADD INDEX` and `CREATE INDEX` DDL operations when the [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) system variable is enabled. When the feature is enabled, the performance of adding indexes is about three times faster than previously.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    To improve the speed of backfilling when creating an index, TiDB v6.3.0 accelerates the `ADD INDEX` and `CREATE INDEX` DDL operations when the [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) system variable is enabled. When the feature is enabled, the performance of adding indexes is about trippled.
```

### Security

* TiKV supports the SM4 algorithm for encryption at rest [#13041](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13041) @[jiayang-zheng](https://github.com/jiayang-zheng)

>     Add the [SM4 algorithm](/encryption-at-rest.md) for TiKV encryption at rest. When you configure encryption at rest, you can enable the SM4 encryption capacity by setting the value of the "data-encryption-method" configuration to "sm4-ctr".

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    Add the [SM4 algorithm](/encryption-at-rest.md) for TiKV encryption at rest. When you configure encryption at rest, you can enable the SM4 encryption capacity by setting the value of the `data-encryption-method` configuration to `sm4-ctr`.
```

* TiFlash supports the SM4 algorithm for encryption at rest [#5714](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5714) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

>     Add the [SM4 algorithm](/encryption-at-rest.md) for TiFlash encryption at rest. When you configure encryption at rest, you can enable the SM4 encryption capacity by setting the value of the "data-encryption-method" configuration to "sm4-ctr".

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    Add the [SM4 algorithm](/encryption-at-rest.md) for TiFlash encryption at rest. When you configure encryption at rest, you can enable the SM4 encryption capacity by setting the value of the `data-encryption-method` configuration to `sm4-ctr`.
```

### Performance

* TiFlash changes the way FastScan is used (experimental) [#5252](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5252) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

    FastScan, introduced in TiFlash starting with v6.2.0, performed as expected, but lacked flexibility. Therefore, in v6.3.0 [the way of using FastScan has changed](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md). TiFlash does not support using the switch to control the FastScan feature. Instead, it uses the system variable [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630) to control whether to enable the FastScan function.

    When you upgrade from v6.2.0 to v6.3.0, all FastScan settings in v6.2.0 will become invalid, but will not affect the normal reading of data. You need to set the variable [`tiflash_fastscan`]. When you upgrade from an earlier version to v6.3.0, the FastScan feature is not enabled by default for all sessions to keep data consistency.

> * TiFlash optimizes to improve data scanning performance in multiple concurrency scenarios [#5376](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5376) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* TiFlash optimizes data scanning performance in multiple concurrency scenarios [#5376](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5376) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
```

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* TiFlash optimizes data scanning performance in scenarios of multiple concurrency tasks [#5376](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5376) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
```

* TiDB supports null-aware anti join [#37525](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37525) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) **tw: Oreoxmt**

    TiDB v6.3.0 introduces a new join type [Null-aware anti join (NAAJ)](/explain-subqueries.md#null-aware-anti-semi-join-not-in-and--all-subqueries). NAAJ can be aware of whether the collection is empty or `NULL` when processing collection operations. This optimizes the execution efficiency of operations such as `IN` and `= ANY` and improves SQL performance.

* Add optimizer hints to control the build end of Hash Join [#issue]() @[Reminiscent](https://github.com/Reminiscent) **tw: TomShawn**

    In v6.3.0, the TiDB optimizer introduces 2 hints, `HASH_JOIN_BUILD()` and `HASH_JOIN_PROBE()`, to specify the Hash Join, its probe end, and its build end. When the optimizer fails to select the optimal execution plan, you can use these hints to intervene with the plan.

* Support session-level CTE inline [#36514](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36514) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520) **tw: shichun-0415**

>     TiDB v6.2.0 introduced the `MERGE` hint in optimizers to allow CTE inline, so that the consumers of a CTE query result can be executed in parallel in TiFlash. In v6.3.0, a session variable [`tidb_opt_force_inline_cte`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_force_inline_cte-new-in-v630) in introduced to allow CTE inline in sessions. This improves ease of use greatly.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    TiDB v6.2.0 introduced the `MERGE` hint in optimizers to allow CTE inline, so that the consumers of a CTE query result can execute it in parallel in TiFlash. In v6.3.0, a session variable [`tidb_opt_force_inline_cte`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_force_inline_cte-new-in-v630) in introduced to allow CTE inline in sessions. This improves ease of use greatly.
```

### Transactions

> * Support deferring unique constraints in pessimistic transactions [#36579](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36579) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw: qiancai**

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Support deferring check of unique constraints in pessimistic transactions [#36579](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36579) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium) **tw: qiancai**
```

>     You can use the [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-new-in-v630) system variable to control when TiDB checks [unique constraints](/constraints.md#pessimistic-transactions) in pessimistic transactions. This variable is disabled by default. When the variable is set to `ON`, TiDB will defer locking operations and unique constraint checks in pessimistic transactions until necessary, thus improving the performance of bulk DML operations.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    You can use the [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-new-in-v630) system variable to control when TiDB checks [unique constraints](/constraints.md#pessimistic-transactions) in pessimistic transactions. This variable is disabled by default. When the variable is enabled (set to `ON`), TiDB will defer locking operations and unique constraint checks in pessimistic transactions until necessary, thus improving the performance of bulk DML operations.
```

* Optimize the way of fetching TSO in the Read-Committed isolation level [#36812](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36812) @[TonsnakeLin](https://github.com/TonsnakeLin) **tw: TomShawn**

>     In the Read-Committed isolation level, the system variable [`tidb_rc_write_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_write_check_ts-new-in-v630) is introduced to control how TSO is fetched. In the case of Plan Cache hit, TiDB improves the execution efficiency of batch DML statements by reducing the frequency of fetching TSO, and reduces the execution time of running tasks in batches.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    In the Read-Committed isolation level, the system variable [`tidb_rc_write_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_write_check_ts-new-in-v630) is introduced to control how TSO is fetched. In the case of Plan Cache hit, TiDB improves the execution efficiency of batch DML statements by reducing the frequency of fetching TSO, and reduces the execution time of running tasks in batch.
```

* Modify the default policy of loading statistics when statistics become outdated [#issue]() @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw: TomShawn**

    In v5.3.0, TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats-new-in-v530) to control how the optimizer behaves when the statistics become outdated. The default value is `ON`, which means keeping the behavior of the old version: When statistics on objects involved in SQL are outdated, the optimizer considers that statistics (other than the total number of rows on the table) are no longer reliable and uses pseudo statistics instead. After tests and analyses of actual user scenarios, the default value of `tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats` is changed to `OFF` in v6.3.0. Even if the statistics become outdated, the optimizer will still use the statistics on the table, which is good for the execution program stability.

* The feature of disabling Titan becomes GA [#issue]() @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie) **tw：ran-huang**

    You can [disable Titan](/titan-configuration.md#disable-titan) for online TiKV nodes.

> 

Reviewer 7: 下面这条漏掉了：
* 缺少 GlobalStats 时自动选择分区静态剪裁 [#37535](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37535) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)

    当启用分区[动态剪裁](/partitioned-table.md#动态裁剪模式)时，优化器依赖 [GlobalStats](/statistics.md#动态裁剪模式下的分区表统计信息) 进行执行计划的选择。在 [GlobalStats](/statistics.md#动态裁剪模式下的分区表统计信息) 收集完成前，使用 pseudo 统计信息可能会造成性能回退。在 v6.3.0 版本中，如果在 [GlobalStats](/statistics.md#动态裁剪模式下的分区表统计信息) 收集未完成的情况下打开动态分区裁剪开关，TiDB 会维持静态分区剪裁的状态，直到 GlobalStats 收集完成。该方式确保在切换分区剪裁策略时系统性能保持稳定。

    For more details about the compatibility with MySQL, see [Regular expression compatibility with MySQL](/functions-and-operators/string-functions.md#regular-expression-compatibility-with-mysql).

* Improve compatibility of SQL-based data Placement Rules [#37171](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37171) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

    TiDB v6.0.0 provides SQL-based data Placement Rules. But this feature is not compatible with TiFlash due to conflicts in implementation mechanisms. TiDB v6.3.0 optimizes this feature, and [improves compatibility of SQL-based data Placement Rules and TiFlash](/placement-rules-in-sql.md#known-limitations).

### Backup and restore

* PITR supports GCS and Azure Blob Storage as backup storage [#issue]() @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) **tw: shichun-0415**

    PITR supports [GCS and Azure Blob Storage as backup storage](). If your TiDB is deployed on GCP or Azure, you can use the PITR feature after upgrading your cluster to v6.3.0.

* BR supports AWS S3 Object Lock [#issue]() @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) **tw: shichun-0415**

>     After enabling [Object Lock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lock.html) , you can protect backup data from being tampered with or deleted.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    After enabling [S3 Object Lock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lock.html), you can protect backup data from being tampered with or deleted.
```

### Data migration

* TiDB Lightning supports importing Parquet files exported by Apache Hive into TiDB [#issue]() @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou) **tw：ran-huang**

>     TiDB Lightning supports importing Parquet files exported by Apache Hive into TiDB, thereby achieving data migration from Hive to TiDB.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    TiDB Lightning supports [importing Parquet files exported by Apache Hive into TiDB](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-data-source.md#parquet), thereby achieving data migration from Hive to TiDB.
```

>     TiDB Lightning supports [importing Parquet files exported by Apache Hive into TiDB](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-data-source.md#parquet), thereby achieving data migration from Hive to TiDB.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    TiDB Lightning supports [importing Parquet files exported by Apache Hive into TiDB](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-data-source.md#parquet), thereby you can migrate data from Hive to TiDB.
```

> * DM supports adding a field to a table migrated to TiDB and assigning values to the field [#3262](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/3262), [#3340](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3340) @[yufan022](https://github.com/yufan022) **tw：ran-huang**
> 
>     DM supports [adding a field to a table migrated to TiDB and assigning values to the field](link). When you merge and migrate MySQL shards to TiDB, you can use the field to distinguish which shard the record is migrated from.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* DM adds a new configuration item `safe-mode-duration` in the task configuration file [#6224] (https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6224) @[[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)] **tw：ran-huang**

    DM adds a new configuration item `safe-mode-duration` in the task configuration file. You can adjust the automatic safe mode duration after DM exits abnormally. The default value is 60 seconds. When `safe-mode-duration` is set to "0s", DM does not automatically enter safe mode after an abnormal restart.
```

Reviewer 9: @Oreoxmt PTAL 
```
* DM 任务配置文件中新增一个配置项 `safe-mode-duration`  [#6224] (https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6224) @[[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)]

DM 任务配置文件中新增一个配置项 `safe-mode-duration`，用户可以自行调节 DM 异常重启后进入安全模式的持续时间，默认值 60 秒。当设置为 "0s" 时，表示 DM 异常重启后不会自动进入安全模式。
```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* DM adds a new configuration item `safe-mode-duration` in the task configuration file [#6224] (https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6224) @[[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)] **tw：ran-huang**
    DM adds a new configuration item `safe-mode-duration` in the [task configuration file](/task-configuration-file-full.md). You can adjust the automatic safe mode duration after DM exits abnormally. The default value is 60 seconds. When `safe-mode-duration` is set to `"0s"`, DM does not automatically enter safe mode after an abnormal restart.
```

@ran-huang 文档里写的是[如设置为 "0s"，则在 DM 自动进入安全模式的时候报错](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/dev/task-configuration-file-full#:~:text=%23%20%E5%A6%82%E8%AE%BE%E7%BD%AE%E4%B8%BA%20%220s%22%EF%BC%8C%E5%88%99%E5%9C%A8%20DM%20%E8%87%AA%E5%8A%A8%E8%BF%9B%E5%85%A5%E5%AE%89%E5%85%A8%E6%A8%A1%E5%BC%8F%E7%9A%84%E6%97%B6%E5%80%99%E6%8A%A5%E9%94%99%E3%80%82)，那设置为 0s 的时候，DM 是否会进入安全模式呢

* TiCDC supports a deployment topology that can replicate data from multiple geo-distributed data sources [#issue]() @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy) **tw：ran-huang**

    To support replicating data from a single TiDB cluster to multiple geo-distributed data systems, starting from v6.3.0, [TiCDC can be deployed in multiple IDCs](link) to replicate data for each IDC. This feature helps deliver the capability of geo-distributed data replication and deployment topology.

* TiCDC supports keeping the snapshots consistent between the upstream and the downstream (sync point) [#issue]() @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw: TomShawn**

    In the scenarios of data replication for disaster recovery, TiCDC supports periodically maintaining a downstream data snapshot so that the downstream snapshot is consistent with the upstream snapshot. With this feature, TiCDC can better match the scenarios where reads and writes are separate, and help you lower the cost.

* TiCDC supports graceful upgrade [#4757](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw:ran-huang**

>     When TiCDC is deployed using TiUP (>=v1.11.0) or TiDB Operator (>=v1.3.8), you can gracefully upgrade the TiCDC cluster. During the upgrade, data replication latency is kept as low as 30 seconds. This improves stability, empowering TiCDC to better support latency-sensitive applications.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    When TiCDC is deployed using [TiUP](/ticdc/deploy-ticdc.md#rolling-upgrade-ticdc-using-tiup) (>=v1.11.0) or [TiDB Operator](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/v1.4/configure-a-tidb-cluster#configure-graceful-upgrade-for-ticdc-cluster) (>=v1.3.8), you can gracefully upgrade the TiCDC cluster. During the upgrade, data replication latency is kept as low as 30 seconds. This improves stability, empowering TiCDC to better support latency-sensitive applications.
```

---
title: TiDB 6.3.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB v6.3.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2022

TiDB version: 6.3.0-DMR

In v6.3.0-DMR, the key new features and improvements are as follows:

- TiKV and TiFlash support SM4 encryption at rest.
- TiDB supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm.
- The `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` statements support the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option.
- JSON data type and functions become generally available (GA).
- TiDB supports null-aware anti join.
- TiDB provides execution time metrics at a finer granularity.
- A new syntactic sugar is added to simplify Range partition definitions.

> - Range Columns partitioning supports defining multiple columns.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
- Range COLUMNS partitioning supports defining multiple columns.
```

## New features

### SQL

* Add a new syntactic sugar (Range INTERVAL partitioning) to simplify Range partition definitions [#35683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35683) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

    [Provides INTERVAL partitioning as a new way of defining Range partitions](/partitioned-table.md#range-interval-partitioning). You do not need to enumerate all partitions, which drastically reduces the lengthy way of writing Range partition statements. The semantic is equivalent to the original Range partition.

> * Range Columns partitioning supports defining multiple columns [#36636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36636) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Range COLUMNS partitioning supports defining multiple columns [#36636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36636) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

    Support [PARTITION BY RANGE COLUMNS (column_list)](/partitioned-table.md#range-columns-partitioning). `column_list` is no longer limited to a single column. The basic feature is the same as MySQL.

* EXCHANGE PARTITION becomes GA [#35996](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35996) @[ymkzpx](https://github.com/ymkzpx)

    [EXCHANGE PARTITION](/partitioned-table.md#partition-management) becomes GA after performance and stability improvements.

* TiDB supports two more [window functions](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md) [#5579](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5579) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) **tw：shichun-0415**

    * `LEAD()`
    * `LAG()`

> * The `CREATE USER` statement supports the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option [#37051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37051) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**
> 
>     When you create a user using the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) statement, you can specify whether the created user is locked using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option. A locked user cannot log in to the database.
> 
> * The `ALTER USER` statement supports the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option [#37051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37051) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**
> 
>     You can modify the lock state of an existing user using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option in the [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md) statement.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
* The `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` statements support the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option [#37051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37051) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**

    When you create a user using the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) statement, you can specify whether the created user is locked using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option. A locked user cannot log in to the database.

    You can modify the lock state of an existing user using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option in the [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md) statement.
```

    JSON is a popular data format adopted by a large number of programs. TiDB has introduced the [JSON support](/data-type-json.md) as an experimental feature since an earlier version, compatible with MySQL's JSON data type and some JSON functions. 

> In v6.3.0, the JSON data type and functions become GA in TiDB, which enriches TiDB’s data types, supports using JSON functions in [expression indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#expression-index) and [generated-columns](/generated-columns.md), and further improves TiDB’s compatibility with MySQL.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    In v6.3.0, the JSON data type and functions become GA in TiDB, which enriches TiDB’s data types, supports using JSON functions in [expression indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#expression-index) and [generated-columns](/generated-columns.md), and further improves TiDB’s compatibility with MySQL.
```

    * `LEAD()`
    * `LAG()`

* The `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` statements support the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option [#37051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37051) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**

    When you create a user using the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) statement, you can specify whether the created user is locked using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option. A locked user cannot log in to the database.

    You can modify the lock state of an existing user using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option in the [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md) statement.

* JSON data type and JSON functions become GA [#36993](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36993) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei) **tw: qiancai**

    JSON is a popular data format adopted by a large number of programs. TiDB has introduced the [JSON support](/data-type-json.md) as an experimental feature since an earlier version, compatible with MySQL's JSON data type and some JSON functions. 

>     In v6.3.0, the JSON data type and functions become GA in TiDB, which enriches TiDB’s data types, supports using JSON functions in [expression indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#expression-index) and [generated-columns](/generated-columns.md), and further improves TiDB’s compatibility with MySQL.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    In TiDB v6.3.0, the JSON data type and functions become GA, which enriches TiDB’s data types, supports using JSON functions in [expression indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#expression-index) and [generated-columns](/generated-columns.md), and further improves TiDB’s compatibility with MySQL.
```

* TiDB Dashboard provides deadlock history information [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw: shichun-0415**

    From v6.3.0, TiDB Dashboard will provide deadlock history. If you find excessively long SQL lock waiting by analyzing slow logs or other information on TiDB Dashboard, you can turn to deadlock history for problem locating, which delivers better diagnosis experience.

### Performance

* TiFlash changes the way of using FastScan (experimental) [#5252](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5252) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

    In v6.2.0, TiFlash introduces the FastScan feature, which brings expected performance improvements but lacks flexibility in use. Therefore, in v6.3.0, TiFlash changes [the way of using FastScan](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md): the `ALTER TABLE ... SET TIFLASH MODE ...` syntax to enable or disable FastScan is deprecated. Instead, you can use the system variable [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630) to easily control whether to enable FastScan.

>     When you upgrade from v6.2.0 to v6.3.0, all FastScan settings in v6.2.0 will become invalid, but will not affect the normal reading of data. You need to set the variable [`tiflash_fastscan`]. When you upgrade from an earlier version to v6.3.0, the FastScan feature is not enabled by default for all sessions to keep data consistency.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    When you upgrade from v6.2.0 to v6.3.0, all FastScan settings in v6.2.0 will become invalid, but will not affect the normal reading of data. You need to set the variable [`tiflash_fastscan`]. When you upgrade from v6.2.0 or an earlier version to v6.3.0, the FastScan feature is not enabled by default for all sessions to keep data consistency.
```

* TiFlash optimizes to improve data scanning performance in multiple concurrency scenarios [#5376](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5376) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

>     TiFlash reduces duplicate reads of the same data by combining read operations of the same data. It optimizes the resource overhead and [improves the performance of data scanning in the case of concurrent tasks](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file). It avoids the situation where the same data needs to be read separately in each task in multiple concurrent tasks, and avoids the possibility of multiple reads of the same data at the same time.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    TiFlash reduces duplicate reads of the same data by combining read operations of the same data. It optimizes the resource overhead and [improves the performance of data scanning in the case of concurrent tasks](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file). For multiple concurrent tasks, it avoids the situation where each task needs to read the same data separately, and avoids the possibility of multiple reads of the same data at the same time.
```

Reviewer 8: "in each task in multiple concurrent tasks" in the original translation looks confusing

    This feature is experimental in v6.2.0, and becomes GA in v6.3.0.

* Improve performance of TiFlash data replication [#5237](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5237) @[breezewish](https://github.com/breezewish)

>     TiFlash uses the Raft protocol for data replication with TiKV. Prior to v6.3.0, it often took long time to replicate large amounts of replica data. TiDB v6.3.0 optimizes the TiFlash data replication mechanism and significantly improves the replication speed. When you use BR to recover data, use TiDB Lightning to import data, or add new TiFlash replicas, the replicas can be replicated more quickly. You can query with TiFlash in a more timely manner. In addition, TiFlash replicas will also reach a secure and balanced state faster when you scale up, scale down, or modify the number of TiFlash replicas.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    TiFlash uses the Raft protocol for data replication from TiKV. Prior to v6.3.0, it often took a long time to replicate large amounts of replica data. TiDB v6.3.0 optimizes the TiFlash data replication mechanism and significantly improves the replication speed. When you use BR to recover data, use TiDB Lightning to import data, or add new TiFlash replicas, the TiFlash replicas can be replicated more quickly. You can query with TiFlash in a more timely manner. In addition, TiFlash replicas will also reach a secure and balanced state faster when you scale up, scale down, or modify the number of TiFlash replicas.
```

---
title: TiDB 6.3.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.3.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2022

TiDB version: 6.3.0-DMR

In v6.3.0-DMR, the key new features and improvements are as follows:

- TiKV support SM4 encryption at rest.
- TiDB supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm.
- The `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` statements support the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option.
- JSON data type and functions become generally available (GA).
- TiDB supports null-aware anti join.
- TiDB provides execution time metrics at a finer granularity.
- A new syntactic sugar is added to simplify Range partition definitions.
- Range COLUMNS partitioning supports defining multiple columns.

## New features

### SQL

> * Add a new syntactic sugar (Range INTERVAL partitioning) to simplify Range partition definitions [#35683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35683) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Add a new syntactic sugar (Range INTERVAL partitioning) to simplify Range partition definitions (experimental) [#35683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35683) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

    TiDB provides [INTERVAL partitioning](/partitioned-table.md#range-interval-partitioning) as a new way of defining Range partitions. You do not need to enumerate all partitions, which drastically reduces the length of Range partitioning DDL statements. The syntax is equivalent to that of the original Range partitioning.

> * Range COLUMNS partitioning supports defining multiple columns [#36636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36636) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Range COLUMNS partitioning supports defining multiple columns (experimental) [#36636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36636) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

> * Range COLUMNS partitioning supports defining multiple columns (experimental) [#36636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36636) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Range COLUMNS partitioning supports defining multiple columns [#36636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36636) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

* TiDB supports two more [window functions](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md) [#5579](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5579) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) **tw：shichun-0415**

    * `LEAD()`
    * `LAG()`

* Provide lightweight metadata lock to improve the DML success rate during DDL change (experimental) [#37275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37275) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) **tw: Oreoxmt**

    TiDB uses the online asynchronous schema change algorithm to support changing metadata objects. When a transaction is executed, it obtains the corresponding metadata snapshot at the transaction start. If the metadata is changed during a transaction, to ensure data consistency, TiDB returns an `Information schema is changed` error and the transaction fails to commit. To solve the problem, TiDB v6.3.0 introduces [metadata lock](/metadata-lock.md) into the online DDL algorithm. To avoid DML errors whenever possible, TiDB coordinates the priority of DMLs and DDLs during table metadata change, and makes executing DDLs wait for the DMLs with old metadata to commit.

> * Improve the performance of adding indexes and reduce its impact on DML transactions [#35983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35983) @[benjamin2037](https://github.com/benjamin2037) **tw: Oreoxmt**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Improve the performance of adding indexes and reduce its impact on DML transactions (experimental) [#35983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35983) @[benjamin2037](https://github.com/benjamin2037) **tw: Oreoxmt**
```

* Improve compatibility of SQL-based data Placement Rules [#37171](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37171) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

    TiDB v6.0.0 provides SQL-based data Placement Rules. But this feature is not compatible with TiFlash due to conflicts in implementation mechanisms. TiDB v6.3.0 optimizes this feature, and [improves compatibility of SQL-based data Placement Rules and TiFlash](/placement-rules-in-sql.md#known-limitations).

* The `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` statements support the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option [#37051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37051) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**

    When you create a user using the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) statement, you can specify whether the created user is locked using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option. A locked user cannot log in to the database.

    You can modify the lock state of an existing user using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option in the [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md) statement.

> * JSON data type and JSON functions become GA [#36993](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36993) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei) **tw: qiancai**

Reviewer: https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36993 has a title of "WIP: JSON support" and is still open. There are two open items on the list. Maybe it would be good to close this and have a different issue to track post-GA issues/roadmap for JSON?

cc @xiongjiwei

    PITR supports [GCS](/br/backup-storage-gcs.md) and [Azure Blob Storage](/br/backup-storage-azblob.md) as backup storages. If your TiDB cluster is deployed on GCP or Azure, you can use the PITR feature after upgrading your cluster to v6.3.0.

* BR supports AWS S3 Object Lock [#issue]() @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) **tw: shichun-0415**

    You can protect backup data on AWS from being tampered with or deleted by enabling [S3 Object Lock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lock.html).

### Data migration

* TiDB Lightning supports importing Parquet files exported by Apache Hive into TiDB [#issue]() @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou) **tw：ran-huang**

    TiDB Lightning supports [importing Parquet files exported by Apache Hive into TiDB](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-data-source.md#parquet), thereby achieving data migration from Hive to TiDB.

* DM adds a new configuration item `safe-mode-duration` in the task configuration file [#6224] (https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6224) @[[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)] **tw：ran-huang**

>     DM adds a new configuration item `safe-mode-duration` in the [task configuration file](/task-configuration-file-full.md). You can adjust the automatic safe mode duration after DM exits abnormally. The default value is 60 seconds. When `safe-mode-duration` is set to `"0s"`, DM does not automatically enter safe mode after an abnormal restart.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    DM adds a new configuration item `safe-mode-duration` in the [task configuration file](/task-configuration-file-full.md). You can adjust the automatic safe mode duration after DM exits abnormally. The default value is 60 seconds. When `safe-mode-duration` is set to `"0s"`, an error is reported when DM tries to enter safe mode after an abnormal restart.
```
@Oreoxmt

        - Improve the accuracy of memory tracker in TiFlash [#5610](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/pull/5610)
        - Improve the performance of string column with `UTF8_BIN/ASCII_BIN/LATIN1_BIN/UTF8MB4_BIN` collation [#5294](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5294)

    - storage

        - Calculate the io throughput in background in ReadLimiter [#5401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5401), [#5091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5091) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - PITR now aggregates a batch of files, which would greatly reduce the number of backup file. [#13232](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13232) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - PITR now supports automatically config TiFlash replica number after the restoration. [#37208](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37208) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiDB Binlog

        - Fix a bug that Drainer cannot send requests correctly to Pump when compressor is set to gzip [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)

    + TiCDC

>         - Improve compatibility for MySQL 8.0 upstream [#6506](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6506) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - Improve compatibility for MySQL 8.0 upstream [#6506](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6506) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Log DML start ts when MySQL sink meets error [#6460](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6460) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
        - Make the API `api/v1/health` reflects the health status of the TiCDC cluster [#4757](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
         - Introduce a new sink implement to increase throughput [#5928](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5928) @[hicqu]https://github.com/hicqu @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
         - Deprecate the memory sorter and always use the unified sorter [#7087](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5928) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
         - Delete the deprecated pulsar sink [#7087](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7087) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
         - Improve replicating performance by discard DDLs that irrelevant with a changefeed. [#6447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6447) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix a bug that may cause the information of the checkpoint being stale [#36423](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36423) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix a bug caused when restoring with high `concurrency` the regions aren't balanced [#37549](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37549) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix a bug that may cause log backup checkpoint TS stuck when TiCDC exists in cluster [#37822](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37822) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix a bug that caused: when the backup meta v2 enabled, there may be too many meta files. [#37244](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37244) [@MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)
        - Fix a bug that may lead to the backup / restore failure if some special character in the authorize key of external storages. [#37469](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37469) [@MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)

    + TiCDC

>         - handle error correctly with wrong pd address but with a grpc service [#6458](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6458) @[crelax](https://github.com/crelax)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
        - handle error correctly with wrong pd address but with a grpc service [#6458](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6458) @[crelax](https://github.com/crelax)
        - Fix a bug that cause cli changefeed list does not contains failed changefeed [#6334](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6334) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix a bug thak may cause cdc unavailable if a changefeed initializing fails  [#6859](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6859) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

### Security

* TiKV supports the SM4 algorithm for encryption at rest [#13041](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13041) @[jiayang-zheng](https://github.com/jiayang-zheng)

    Add the [SM4 algorithm](/encryption-at-rest.md) for TiKV encryption at rest. When you configure encryption at rest, you can enable the SM4 encryption capacity by setting the value of the `data-encryption-method` configuration to `sm4-ctr`.

* TiDB supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm [#36192](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36192) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**

    TiDB adds an authentication plugin [`tidb_sm3_password`](/security-compatibility-with-mysql.md) based on the SM3 algorithm. When this plugin is enabled, the user password is encrypted and validated using the SM3 algorithm.

* TiDB JDBC supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm [#25](https://github.com/pingcap/mysql-connector-j/issues/25) @[lastincisor](https://github.com/lastincisor) **tw：ran-huang**

>     Authenticating the user password needs client-side support. Now because [JDBC supports the SM3 algorithm](/develop/dev-guide-choose-driver-or-orm.md#java-drivers), you can connect to TiDB using SM3 authentication via TiDB-JDBC.

Reviewer: The linked document says:
"It is strongly recommended to use version 5.1.49, which is the latest version of JDBC 5.1. Since there is an [unresolved bug](https://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=106252) in the current version 8.0.29, which might cause threads to hang when using TiDB. It is recommended that you do not upgrade to version 8.0 until MySQL JDBC 8.0 merges this fix."

1. As https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32118 is fixed the mentioned bug no longer affects TiDB. So we should now recommend MySQL Connector/J 8.0.x
2. "JDBC" is the API implemented by many different databases, "MySQL Connector/J" is the MySQL specific JDBC implementation. There is no "JDBC 5.1" as mentioned in the text, the last version of the API is 4.3 (see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_Database_Connectivity ). The issue here is that both terms seem to be mixed.
3. We should recommend MySQL Connector/J 8.0.30 instead of 8.0.29. Looks like we didn't update the document after 8.0.30 was released.
4. Why do we use `io.github.lastincisor` in the `pom.xml` instead of an official PingCAP repository?
5. I assume even older TiDB versions can use the 8.0 branch of "TiDB MySQL Connector/J"?
6. Where can I find more information about "automatic TiCDC snapshot maintenance"?
7. Are we planning to upgrade the TiDB branch of MySQL Connector/J to 8.0.30 any time soon?

Reviewer 12: 1. this version was fixed [the bug ](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32118)  [prepare bug fix](https://github.com/pingcap/mysql-connector-j/pull/2) .
3. we bug fix is fork 8.0.29 , next version update  8.0.30 .
4. PingCAP repository not yet applied。 PM and Legal is agree . applied PingCAP repository next version .
5.  "TiDB MySQL Connector/J" compatible 8.0 protocol .

Reviewer: So the text on the linked document should be revised?

Reviewer 9: @dveeden please check [this link](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/dev-guide-choose-driver-or-orm#java-drivers) (click the *TiDB-JDBC* tab) for the latest JDBC document. Do you think it should be revised?

Reviewer: Yes, maybe something like:
"We recommend the use of MySQL Connector/J 8.0.29 or later. For TiDB v6.2 and earlier we recommend you to use the TiDB version of MySQL Connector/J as that includes a fix for an [unresolved bug](https://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=106252) in MySQL Connector/J that affects older versions of TiDB. Using SM3 based authentication is only supported with the TiDB version of MySQL Connector/J"

I don't really like "TiDB MySQL Connector/J". Should we call it "TiDB Connector/J"? I don't think that's really correct either.

Reviewer 9: Thank you for the suggestion. I created another PR to update the TiDB-JDBC doc. We can continue this discussion [here](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10565).

### Observability

* TiDB provides fine-grained metrics of SQL query execution time [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw: Oreoxmt**

    TiDB v6.3.0 provides fine-grained data metrics for [detailed observation of execution time](/latency-breakdown.md). Through the complete and segmented metrics, you can clearly understand the main time consumption of SQL queries, and then quickly find key problems and save time in troubleshooting.

* Enhanced output for slow logs and `TRACE` statements [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw: Oreoxmt**

    TiDB v6.3.0 enhances the output of slow logs and `TRACE`. You can observe the [full-link duration](/latency-breakdown.md) of SQL queries from TiDB parsing to KV RocksDB writing to disk, which further enhances the diagnostic capabilities.

* TiDB Dashboard provides deadlock history information [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw: shichun-0415**

>     From v6.3.0, TiDB Dashboard provides deadlock history. If you find excessively long SQL lock waiting by analyzing slow logs or other information on TiDB Dashboard, you can check the deadlock history to locate the root cause, which delivers better diagnosis experience.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    From v6.3.0, TiDB Dashboard provides deadlock history. If you check the slow log 
 in TiDB Dashboard and find the lock waiting time of some SQL statements to be excessively long, you can check the deadlock history to locate the root cause, which makes your diagnosis easier.
```

    TiKV supports [recycling log files](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable-log-recycle-new-in-v630) in Raft Engine. This reduces the long tail latency in network disks during Raft log appending and improves performance under write workloads.

* TiDB supports null-aware anti join [#37525](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37525) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) **tw: Oreoxmt**

    TiDB v6.3.0 introduces a new join type [Null-aware anti join (NAAJ)](/explain-subqueries.md#null-aware-anti-semi-join-not-in-and--all-subqueries). NAAJ can be aware of whether the collection is empty or `NULL` when processing collection operations. This optimizes the execution efficiency of operations such as `IN` and `= ANY` and improves SQL performance.

* Add optimizer hints to control the build end of Hash Join [#issue]() @[Reminiscent](https://github.com/Reminiscent) **tw: TomShawn**

    In v6.3.0, the TiDB optimizer introduces 2 hints, `HASH_JOIN_BUILD()` and `HASH_JOIN_PROBE()`, to specify the Hash Join, its probe end, and its build end. When the optimizer fails to select the optimal execution plan, you can use these hints to intervene with the plan.

> * Support session-level CTE inline [#36514](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36514) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520) **tw: shichun-0415**

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* Support session-level common table expressions (CTE) inline [#36514](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36514) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520) **tw: shichun-0415**
```

>     TiDB v6.2.0 introduced the `MERGE` hint in optimizers to allow CTE inline, so that the consumers of a CTE query result can execute it in parallel in TiFlash. In v6.3.0, a session variable [`tidb_opt_force_inline_cte`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_force_inline_cte-new-in-v630) is introduced to allow CTE inline in sessions. This improves ease of use greatly.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    TiDB v6.2.0 introduced the `MERGE` hint in optimizers to allow CTE inline, so that the consumers of a CTE query result can execute it in parallel in TiFlash. In v6.3.0, a session variable [`tidb_opt_force_inline_cte`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_force_inline_cte-new-in-v630) is introduced to allow CTE inline in sessions. This can greatly improve the ease of use.
```

* Optimize the way of fetching TSO in the Read-Committed isolation level [#36812](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36812) @[TonsnakeLin](https://github.com/TonsnakeLin) **tw: TomShawn**

    In the Read-Committed isolation level, the system variable [`tidb_rc_write_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_write_check_ts-new-in-v630) is introduced to control how TSO is fetched. In the case of Plan Cache hit, TiDB improves the execution efficiency of batch DML statements by reducing the frequency of fetching TSO, and reduces the execution time of running tasks in batch.

### Stability

* Modify the default policy of loading statistics when statistics become outdated [#issue]() @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw: TomShawn**

>     In v5.3.0, TiDB introduces the system variable [`tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats-new-in-v530) to control how the optimizer behaves when the statistics become outdated. The default value is `ON`, which means keeping the behavior of the old version: When statistics on objects involved in SQL are outdated, the optimizer considers that statistics (other than the total number of rows on the table) are no longer reliable and uses pseudo statistics instead. After tests and analyses of actual user scenarios, the default value of `tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats` is changed to `OFF` in v6.3.0. Even if the statistics become outdated, the optimizer will still use the statistics on the table, which is good for the execution program stability.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    In v5.3.0, TiDB introduced the system variable [`tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats-new-in-v530) to control how the optimizer behaves when the statistics become outdated. The default value is `ON`, which means keeping the behavior of the old version: When the statistics on objects that are involved in a SQL statement are outdated, the optimizer considers that statistics (other than the total number of rows on the table) are no longer reliable and uses pseudo statistics instead. After tests and analyses of actual user scenarios, the default value of `tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats` is changed to `OFF` since v6.3.0. Even if the statistics become outdated, the optimizer will still use the statistics on the table, which makes the execution plan more stable.
```

    When you create a user using the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) statement, you can specify whether the created user is locked using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option. A locked user cannot log in to the database.

    You can modify the lock state of an existing user using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option in the [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md) statement.

* JSON data type and JSON functions become GA [#36993](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36993) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei) **tw: qiancai**

    JSON is a popular data format adopted by a large number of programs. TiDB has introduced the [JSON support](/data-type-json.md) as an experimental feature since an earlier version, compatible with MySQL's JSON data type and some JSON functions.

    In TiDB v6.3.0, the JSON data type and functions become GA, which enriches TiDB’s data types, supports using JSON functions in [expression indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#expression-index) and [generated-columns](/generated-columns.md), and further improves TiDB’s compatibility with MySQL.

### Backup and restore

> * PITR supports GCS and Azure Blob Storage as backup storage [#issue]() @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) **tw: shichun-0415**

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* PITR supports GCS and Azure Blob Storage as backup storages [#issue]() @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) **tw: shichun-0415**
```

>     PITR supports [GCS and Azure Blob Storage as backup storage](). If your TiDB is deployed on GCP or Azure, you can use the PITR feature after upgrading your cluster to v6.3.0.

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    PITR supports [GCS and Azure Blob Storage as backup storages](). If your TiDB cluster is deployed on GCP or Azure, you can use the PITR feature after upgrading your cluster to v6.3.0.
```

        - Support Planner Interpreter [#4739](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4739) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
        - Support to pushdown hex to TiFlash [#5107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5107) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
        - Suppress the "tcp set inq" loggings [#4940](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4940)

    - storage

        - Calculate the io throughput in background in ReadLimiter [#5401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5401), [#5091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5091) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note [#issue]() @[Contributor GitHub ID]()

    + TiDB Binlog

        - Fix a bug that Drainer cannot send requests correctly to Pump when compressor is set to gzip [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)

    + TiCDC

        - Improve compatibility for MySQL 8.0 upstream [#6506](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6506) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

>         - Improve compatibility for MySQL 8.0 upstream [#6448](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6448) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Author: fixed in [a5dbb10](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10249/commits/a5dbb1027a0cd46890f47c0f0b6dbd11f8e462e8)

+ PD

    - grpc: fix the wrong error handler [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Fix the issue that unhealthy region cause panic [#5491](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5491) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Fix the bug where the Learner Peer of TiFlash Replica might not be created [#5401](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5401) @[HunDunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM)

+ TiFlash

    - compute

        - Fix the bug that window function may cause tiflash crash when canceled [#5814](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5814) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
        - fix error data input for date(CAST(value AS DATETIME)) causing high TiFlash sys CPU [#5097](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5097) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
        - fix that the result of expression casting real or decimal as time is inconsistent with mysql [#3779](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3779) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)

    - storage

>         - fix the problem that there may be some obsolete data left in storage which cannot be deleted [#5570](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5570) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Author: ```suggestion
```

| [`tidb_rc_write_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_write_check_ts-new-in-v630)  | Newly added | This variable is used to optimize the acquisition of timestamps and is suitable for scenarios with few point-write conflicts in `READ-COMMITTED` isolation level of pessimistic transactions. Enabling this variable can avoid the latency and overhead brought by obtaining the global timestamps during the execution of point-write statements |
| [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630) | Newly added | This variable controls whether to enable FastScan. If [FastScan](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md) is enabled (set to `ON`), TiFlash provides more efficient query performance, but does not guarantee the accuracy of the query results or data consistency. |

> 

Author: ```suggestion
| [`sql_require_primary_key`](/system-variables.md#sql_require_primary_key-new-in-v630)   | Newly added  |  This variable controls whether to enforce the requirement that a table has a primary key. After this variable is enabled, attempting to create or alter a table without a primary key will produce an error.  |
| [`tidb_ddl_flashback_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_flashback_concurrency-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Controls the concurrency of `flashback cluster`. The feature controlled by this variable is not fully functional in the current TiDB version. Do not change the default value.  |
| [`tidb_enable_foreign_key`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_foreign_key-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Controls whether to enable the `FOREIGN KEY` feature. The feature controlled by this variable is not fully functional in the current TiDB version. Do not change the default value.  |
| [`tidb_enable_general_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_general_plan_cache-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Controls whether to enable the General Plan Cache feature. The feature controlled by this variable is not fully functional in the current TiDB version. Do not change the default value.  |
| [`tidb_enable_null_aware_anti_join`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_null_aware_anti_join-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Controls whether TiDB applies Null Aware Hash Join when ANTI JOIN is generated by subqueries led by special set operators `NOT IN` and `!= ALL`. |
| [`tidb_enable_tiflash_read_for_write_stmt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_tiflash_read_for_write_stmt-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Controls whether read requests in SQL write statements are pushed down to TiFlash. The feature controlled by this variable is not fully functional in the current TiDB version. Do not change the default value.  |
| [`tidb_general_plan_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_general_plan_cache_size-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of execution plans that can be cached by General Plan Cache. The feature controlled by this variable is not fully functional in the current TiDB version. Do not change the default value.  |

```

## Removed feature

Since v6.3.0, TiCDC no longer supports configuring Pulsar sink. [kop](https://github.com/streamnative/kop) provided by StreamNative can be used as an alternative.

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - sql-infra

        - Grant privilege of a table to an user checks the target table exist first, in the past, the table name comparison works in a case sensitive manner, now it's changed to case insensitive [#34610](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34610) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
        - Previously, TiDB users can set `init_connect` without any checking. From now on, the value of `init_connect` should be checked by the sql parser [#35324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35324) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
        - Improve warning log when new connection arrives [#34964](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34964) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei)

    - execution

>         - report error if json path has the wrong syntax [#22525](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/22525) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei)
>         - report error if json path has the wrong syntax [#34959](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34959) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei)
>         - Improve the performance of Join by fix a false sharing problem. [#37641](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37641)
>         - Improve the MySQL compatibility of `CAST` function in terms of float-to-time conversion [#37462](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37462) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - Report errors when the JSON path has wrong syntax [#22525](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/22525) [#34959](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34959) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei)
        - Improve the performance of Join operations by fixing a false sharing issue [#37641](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37641)
        - Improve the MySQL compatibility of the `CAST` function for the float-to-time conversion [#37462](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37462) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)
```

    - planner

        - planner: just pop cte's handleHelper map out since it shouldn't be considered [#35758](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35758) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
        - [`PLAN REPLAYER`](/sql-plan-replayer) can be used on multiple SQL statements, which makes troubleshooting more efficient [#37798](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37798) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)

+ TiKV

>     - Support configuring the `unreachable_backoff` item to avoid Raftstore broadcasting too many messages after one peer become unreachable [#13054](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13054) @[5kbpers](https://github.com/5kbpers)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    - Support configuring the `unreachable_backoff` item to avoid Raftstore broadcasting too many messages after one peer becomes unreachable [#13054](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13054) @[5kbpers](https://github.com/5kbpers)
```

    - Improve the fault tolerance of TSO service [#12794](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12794) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu)
    - (dup) Support dynamically modifying the number of sub-compaction operations performed concurrently in RocksDB (`rocksdb.max-sub-compactions`) [#13145](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13145) @[ethercflow](https://github.com/ethercflow)
    - Optimize the performance of merging empty Regions [#12421](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12421) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
    - Support more regular expression functions [#13483](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13483) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)

>     - Support automatically adjust the thread pool size based on the CPU usage [#13313](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13313) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    - Support automatically adjusting the thread pool size based on the CPU usage [#13313](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13313) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
```

    - Optimize the performance of merging empty Regions [#12421](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12421) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
    - Support more regular expression functions [#13483](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13483) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - Support automatically adjusting the thread pool size based on the CPU usage [#13313](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13313) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

+ PD

    - Improve the query of the TiKV IO MBps metric in TiDB Dashboard [#5366](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5366) @[YiniXu9506](https://github.com/YiniXu9506)
    - Modify the URL in TiDB Dashboard from `metrics` to `monitoring` [#5366](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5366) @[YiniXu9506](https://github.com/YiniXu9506)

+ TiFlash

    - Compute

        - Support to push down the `elt` function to TiFlash [#5104](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5104) @[Willendless](https://github.com/Willendless)

>         - Support to push down the `leftShift` function to TiFlash [#5099](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5099) @[AnnieoftheStars](https://github.com/AnnieoftheStars)
>         - Support to push down the `castTimeAsDuration` function to TiFlash [#5306](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5306) @[AntiTopQuark](https://github.com/AntiTopQuark)
>         - Support to push down the `HexIntArg/HexStrArg` function to TiFlash [#5107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5107) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Support pushing down the `leftShift` function to TiFlash [#5099](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5099) @[AnnieoftheStars](https://github.com/AnnieoftheStars)
        - Support pushing down the `castTimeAsDuration` function to TiFlash [#5306](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5306) @[AntiTopQuark](https://github.com/AntiTopQuark)
        - Support pushing down the `HexIntArg/HexStrArg` function to TiFlash [#5107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5107) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - PITR now aggregates a batch of files, which would greatly reduce the number of backup files required [#13232](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13232) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - PITR now supports automatically configuring the number of TiFlash replicas based on the upstream cluster configuration after the restoration [#37208](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37208) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiDB Binlog

        - Fix a bug that Drainer cannot send requests correctly to Pump when compressor is set to gzip [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)

    + TiCDC

        - Improve compatibility for MySQL 8.0 upstream [#6506](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6506) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Support logging `start ts` of DML statements when MySQL sink gets an error [#6460](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6460) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

>         - Make the API `api/v1/health` reflects the health status of the TiCDC cluster [#4757](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Improve the accuracy of TiCDC cluster health status returned by the `api/v1/health` API (https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
```

>         - Make the API `api/v1/health` reflects the health status of the TiCDC cluster [#4757](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Make the API `api/v1/health` reflect the health status of the TiCDC cluster [#4757](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
```

>         - Enhance the `api/v1/health` API to return a more accurate health state of a TiCDC cluster (https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Enhance the `api/v1/health` API to return a more accurate health state of a TiCDC cluster [#4757](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
```

         - Implement MQ sink and MySQL sink in the asynchronous mode to improve the sink throughput [#5928](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5928) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
         - Delete the deprecated pulsar sink [#7087](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7087) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

>          - Improve replication performance by discarding DDL statements that are irrelevant with a changefeed [#6447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6447) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
         - Improve replication performance by discarding DDL statements that are irrelevant to a changefeed [#6447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6447) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

        - Optimize DDL history HTTP API, and add support for 'start_job_id' parameter [#35838](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35838) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
        - Fix the issue that `row_count` of DDL jobs is inaccurate [#25968](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25968) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
        - Fix the issue that `FLASHBACK TABLE` does not work properly [#37386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37386) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
        - Fix handling of prepared statement flags in the classic MySQL protocol [#36731](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36731) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
        - Fix data-race issue on start up in rare cases [#36791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36791) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
        - Fix the issue that `information_schema.variables_info` does not respect SEM [#37586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37586) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

    - execution

>         - Fix wrong result when enabling dynamic mode in partition table for tiflash [#37254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37254) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
>         - Fix the issue that the cast and comparison between binary string and json is incompatible with MySQL [#31918](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31918) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>         - Fix the issue that the cast and comparison between binary string and json is incompatible with MySQL [#25053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25053) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>         - Fix the issue that the json_objectagg and json_arrayagg is not compatible with MySQL on binary value [#25053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25053) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>         - Fix the issue that comparison between json opaque causes panic [#37315](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37315) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>         - Fix the issue that the single precision float cannot be used in json aggregation funtions [#37287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37287) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>         - Fix the issue that `UNION` may returns unexpected empty result [#36903](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36903) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - Fix the wrong result that occurs when enabling dynamic mode in partitioned tables for TiFlash [#37254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37254) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
        - Fix the issue that the cast and comparison between binary strings and JSON are incompatible with MySQL [#31918](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31918) [#25053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25053) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
        - Fix the issue that `json_objectagg` and `json_arrayagg` in TiDB are not compatible with MySQL on binary values [#25053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25053) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
        - Fix the issue that the comparison between JSON opaque values causes panic [#37315](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37315) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
        - Fix the issue that the single precision float cannot be used in JSON aggregation funtions [#37287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37287) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
        - Fix the issue that `UNION` operator might return unexpected empty result [#36903](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36903) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
```

    - transaction

>         - bugfix: do not acquire pessimistic lock for non-unique index keys [#36235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36235)
>         - Fix the auto-commit mode change related transaction commit behaviours [#36581](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36581) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
>         - Fix the issue explain analyze with DML executors may respond to the client before the transaction commit has finished [#37273](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37373) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that pessimistic DML operations lock non-unique index keys [#36235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36235)
        - Fix the transaction commit behaviours related to auto-commit mode change [#36581](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36581) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
        - Fix the issue that the `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` statements with DML executors might return results before the transaction commit has finished [#37273](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37373) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
```

    - diagnosis

        - Fix incorrect `PromQL` [#35856](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35856) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

+ TiKV

    - (dup) Fix the issue that PD does not reconnect to TiKV after the Region heartbeat is interrupted [#12934](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12934) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - (dup) Fix a bug that Regions might be overlapped if Raftstore is busy [#13160](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13160) @[5kbpers](https://github.com/5kbpers)
    - (dup) Fix the issue that the PD client might cause deadlocks [#13191](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13191) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies) [#12933](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12933) @[BurtonQin](https://github.com/BurtonQin)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV might panic when encryption is disabled [#13081](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13081) @[jiayang-zheng](https://github.com/jiayang-zheng)
    - (dup) Fix the wrong expression of `Unified Read Pool CPU` in Dashboard [#13086](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13086) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

>     - Fix the issue that the TiKV service is unavailable for several minutes when a TiKV is in an isolated network environment [#12966](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12966) @[cosven](https://github.com/cosven)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the TiKV service is unavailable for several minutes when a TiKV instance is in an isolated network environment [#12966](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12966) @[cosven](https://github.com/cosven)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiKV mistakenly reports a `PessimisticLockNotFound` error [#13425](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13425) @[sticnarf](https://github.com/sticnarf)
    - Fix a bug that PITR might cause data loss in some situations [#13281](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13281) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

>     - Fix a bug that caused checkpoint not advanced when there are some long pessimistic transactions [#13304](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13304) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that causes checkpoint not advanced when there are some long pessimistic transactions [#13304](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13304) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

        - Fix the bug that wrong data input for `cast(value as datetime)` causing high TiFlash sys CPU [#5097](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5097) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
        - fix that the result of expression casting real or decimal as time is inconsistent with mysql [#3779](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3779) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)

    - storage

        - fix the problem that there may be some obsolete data left in storage which cannot be deleted [#5570](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5570) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
        - Fix the bug that page GC may block creating tables [#5697](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5697) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
        - Fix the panic issue after creating the primary index with a column containing `NULL` value [#5859](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5859) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Fix a bug that may cause the information of the checkpoint being stale [#36423](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36423) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that might cause the information of the checkpoint being stale [#36423](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36423) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

        - Fix a bug caused when restoring with high `concurrency` the regions aren't balanced [#37549](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37549) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

>         - Fix a bug that may cause log backup checkpoint TS stuck when TiCDC exists in cluster [#37822](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37822) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that might cause log backup checkpoint TS stuck when TiCDC exists in the cluster [#37822](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37822) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

        - Fix a bug that caused: when the backup meta v2 enabled, there may be too many meta files. [#37244](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37244) [@MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)

>         - Fix a bug that may lead to the backup / restore failure if some special character in the authorize key of external storages. [#37469](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37469) [@MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that might lead to backup and restoration failure if some special character exists in the authorization key of external storage [#37469](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37469) [@MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)
```

    + TiCDC

        - Handle error correctly with wrong PD address but with a grpc service [#6458](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6458) @[crelax](https://github.com/crelax)
        - Fix a bug that `cdc cause cli changefeed list` does not contain failed changefeed [#6334](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6334) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix a bug that may cause cdc unavailable if a changefeed initializing fails  [#6859](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6859) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - Fix a problem that DM will report `Specified key was too long` error [#5315](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5315) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

>         - Fix a bug that relay goroutine and upstream connections may leak when relay meet error [#6193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6193) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - (dup) Fix goroutine leak when relay meets an error [#6193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6193) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

        - Fix when use "strict" collation_compatible, DM sometimes generate SQL with duplicated collation [#6832](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6832) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

>         - Reduce the appearing time of the warning message "found error when getting timezone from binlog status_vars" in dm-worker log [#6628](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6628) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Reduce the appearance of the warning message "found error when get timezone from binlog status_vars" in DM-worker log [#6628](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6628) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001)
```

        - Fix a bug that latin1 data may be corrupt when replicating [#7028](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7028) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    + TiDB Lightning

>         - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not support columns starting with slash, number, or non-ascii characters in Parquet files [#36980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36980) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
        - (dup) Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not support columns starting with slash, number, or non-ascii characters in Parquet files [#36980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36980) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - PITR now aggregates a batch of files, which would greatly reduce the number of backup files required [#13232](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13232) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - PITR now supports automatically configuring the number of TiFlash replicas based on the upstream cluster configuration after the restoration [#37208](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37208) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiDB Binlog

        - Fix a bug that Drainer cannot send requests correctly to Pump when compressor is set to gzip [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)

    + TiCDC

        - Improve compatibility for MySQL 8.0 upstream [#6506](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6506) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Support logging `start ts` of DML statements when MySQL sink gets an error [#6460](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6460) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

>         - Make the API `api/v1/health` reflects the health status of the TiCDC cluster [#4757](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Make the API `api/v1/health` reflect the health status of the TiCDC cluster [#4757](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiKV does not distinguish the datetime type (`DATETIME`, `DATE`, `TIMESTAMP` and `TIME`) and `STRING` type in JSON [#13417](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13417) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix incompatibility with MySQL of comparison between JSON bool and other JSON value [#13386](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13386) [#37481](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37481) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

+ PD

    - (dup) Fix PD panics caused by the issue that gRPC handles errors inappropriately when `enable-forwarding` is enabled [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Fix the issue that unhealthy Region might cause PD panic [#5491](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5491) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Fix the bug that the TiFlash learner replica might not be created [#5401](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5401) @[HunDunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM)

+ TiFlash

    - Compute

>         - Fix the bug that the window function may cause TiFlash to crash when the query is canceled [#5814](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5814) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that the window function might cause TiFlash to crash when the query is canceled [#5814](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5814) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
```

>         - Fix the bug that wrong data input for `date(CAST(value AS DATETIME))` causing high TiFlash sys CPU [#5097](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5097) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that wrong data input for `date(CAST(value AS DATETIME))` causing high TiFlash sys CPU [#5097](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5097) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
```

>         - Fix that issue that the result of `cast(Real/Decimal)AsTime` is inconsistent with MySQL [#3779](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3779) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the result of `cast(Real/Decimal)AsTime` is inconsistent with MySQL [#3779](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3779) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)
```

    - Storage

>         - Fix the issue that there may be some obsolete data left in storage which cannot be deleted [#5570](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5570) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that some obsolete data in storage cannot be deleted [#5570](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5570) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

>         - Fix the bug that page GC may block creating tables [#5697](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5697) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that page GC might block creating tables [#5697](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5697) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

>         - Fix the panic issue that occurs after creating the primary index with a column containing the `NULL` value [#5859](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5859) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Fix the panic that occurs after creating the primary index with a column containing the `NULL` value [#5859](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5859) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

* TiKV supports log recycling [#214](https://github.com/tikv/raft-engine/issues/214) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator) **tw：ran-huang**

    TiKV supports [recycling log files](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable-log-recycle-new-in-v630) in Raft Engine. This reduces the long tail latency in network disks during Raft log appending and improves performance under write workloads.

* TiDB supports null-aware anti join [#37525](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37525) @[Arenatlx](https://github.com/Arenatlx) **tw: Oreoxmt**

    TiDB v6.3.0 introduces a new join type [Null-aware anti join (NAAJ)](/explain-subqueries.md#null-aware-anti-semi-join-not-in-and--all-subqueries). NAAJ can be aware of whether the collection is empty or `NULL` when processing collection operations. This optimizes the execution efficiency of operations such as `IN` and `= ANY` and improves SQL performance.

> * Add optimizer hints to control the build end of Hash Join [#issue]() @[Reminiscent](https://github.com/Reminiscent) **tw: TomShawn**

Author: ```suggestion
* Add optimizer hints to control the build end of Hash Join [#35439](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35439) @[Reminiscent](https://github.com/Reminiscent) **tw: TomShawn**
```

    You can use the [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-new-in-v630) system variable to control when TiDB checks [unique constraints](/constraints.md#pessimistic-transactions) in pessimistic transactions. This variable is disabled by default. When the variable is enabled (set to `ON`), TiDB will defer locking operations and unique constraint checks in pessimistic transactions until necessary, thus improving the performance of bulk DML operations.

* Optimize the way of fetching TSO in the Read-Committed isolation level [#36812](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36812) @[TonsnakeLin](https://github.com/TonsnakeLin) **tw: TomShawn**

    In the Read-Committed isolation level, the system variable [`tidb_rc_write_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_write_check_ts-new-in-v630) is introduced to control how TSO is fetched. In the case of Plan Cache hit, TiDB improves the execution efficiency of batch DML statements by reducing the frequency of fetching TSO, and reduces the execution time of running tasks in batch.

### Stability

> * Modify the default policy of loading statistics when statistics become outdated [#issue]() @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw: TomShawn**

Author: ```suggestion
* Modify the default policy of loading statistics when statistics become outdated [#27601](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27601) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw: TomShawn**
```

### Others

* Improve MySQL compatibility by supporting the `ACCOUNT LOCK` and `ACCOUNT UNLOCK` options.
* Log backup supports GCS and Azure Blob Storage as backup storage.
* Log backup is now compatible with the `exchange partition` DDL.
* The SQL statement `ALTER TABLE ...SET TiFLASH MODE ...` previously used for enabling [fastscan](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md) is deprecated, and replaced by the system variable [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630). When you upgrade from v6.2.0 to v6.3.0, all FastScan settings in v6.2.0 will become invalid, but will not affect the normal reading of data. You need to set the variable [`tiflash_fastscan`]. When you upgrade from an earlier version to v6.3.0, the FastScan feature is not enabled by default for all sessions to keep data consistency.

## Removed feature

Since v6.3.0, TiCDC no longer supports configuring Pulsar sink. [kop](https://github.com/streamnative/kop) provided by StreamNative can be used as an alternative.

## Improvements

+ TiDB

>     - [`PLAN REPLAYER`](/sql-plan-replayer) can be used on multiple SQL statements, which makes troubleshooting more efficient [#37798](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37798) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)

Reviewer 13: planner

Author: fixed in [a5dbb10](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10249/commits/a5dbb1027a0cd46890f47c0f0b6dbd11f8e462e8)

>     - Improve warning log when new connection arrives [#34964](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34964) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei)

Reviewer 13: sql-infra

Author: fixed in [a5dbb10](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10249/commits/a5dbb1027a0cd46890f47c0f0b6dbd11f8e462e8)

> | TiCDC | [`sink-uri.memory`](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#create-a-replication-task) | Deprecated | This configuration item is deprecated. It is not recommended to use it in any situation. |

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
| TiCDC | [`sink-uri.memory`](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#create-a-replication-task) | Deprecated | The `memory` sorting is deprecated. It is not recommended to use it in any situation. You can use the `unified` sorting instead. |
```

+ TiKV

    - Add a new option to make unreachable_backoff of raftstore configurable [#13054](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13054)
    - Implement TSO batch list to improve tolerance to TSO service fault [#12794](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12794) @[pingyu](https://github.com/pingyu)
    - Make max_subcompactions dynamically changeable [#13145](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13145) @[ethercflow](https://github.com/ethercflow)
    - Optimize the performance of merging empty regions [#12421](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/12421) @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
    - Support more regular expression functions [#13483](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13483) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - Support automatically scale read pool thread count based on the CPU usage [#13313](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13313) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

+ PD

    - Updates metrics query. Renames `metrics` to `monitoring` on TiDB Dashboard [#5366](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5366) @[YiniXu9506](https://github.com/YiniXu9506)

> + TiFlash
> 
>     - compute
> 
>         - Support to pushdown elt to TiFlash [#5104](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5104) @[Willendless](https://github.com/Willendless)
>         - Support to pushdown leftShift to TiFlash [#5099](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5099) @[AnnieoftheStars](https://github.com/AnnieoftheStars)
>         - Support to pushdown castTimeAsDuration to TiFlash [#5306](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5306) @[AntiTopQuark](https://github.com/AntiTopQuark)
>         - Support Planner Interpreter [#4739](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4739) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
>         - Support to pushdown hex to TiFlash [#5107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5107) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>         - Suppress the "tcp set inq" loggings [#4940](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4940)
>         - Improve the accuracy of memory tracker in TiFlash [#5610](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/pull/5610)
>         - Improve the performance of string column with `UTF8_BIN/ASCII_BIN/LATIN1_BIN/UTF8MB4_BIN` collation [#5294](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5294)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
+ TiFlash

    - Compute

        - Support to push down the `elt` function to TiFlash [#5104](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5104) @[Willendless](https://github.com/Willendless)
        - Support to push down the `leftShift` function to TiFlash [#5099](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5099) @[AnnieoftheStars](https://github.com/AnnieoftheStars)
        - Support to push down the `castTimeAsDuration` function to TiFlash [#5306](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5306) @[AntiTopQuark](https://github.com/AntiTopQuark)
        - Support interpreter planner [#4739](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4739) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
        - Support to push down the `HexIntArg/HexStrArg` function to TiFlash [#5107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5107) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
        - Suppress the "cannot set inq" logs [#4940](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4940)
        - Improve the accuracy of memory tracker in TiFlash [#5609](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5609)
        - Improve the performance of string columns with the `UTF8_BIN/ASCII_BIN/LATIN1_BIN/UTF8MB4_BIN` collations [#5294](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5294)
```

>     - storage
> 
>         - Calculate the io throughput in background in ReadLimiter [#5401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5401), [#5091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5091) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Storage

        - Calculate the I/O throughput in background in ReadLimiter [#5401](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5401), [#5091](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5091) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
```

        - PITR now supports automatically config TiFlash replica number after the restoration. [#37208](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37208) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiDB Binlog

        - Fix a bug that Drainer cannot send requests correctly to Pump when compressor is set to gzip [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)

    + TiCDC

        - Improve compatibility for MySQL 8.0 upstream [#6506](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6506) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - Improve compatibility for MySQL 8.0 upstream [#6448](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6448) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Add query parameters for S3 external storage URL, in order to support accessing the S3 data in another account by assuming a given role [#36891](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36891) [dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

    - TiUP

        - note [#issue]() @[Contributor GitHub ID]()

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Fix handling of prepared statement flags in the classic MySQL protocol [#36731](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36731) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
    - Fix handling of prepared statement flags in the classic MySQL protocol [#36731](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36731) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
```

sql-infra

Author: fixed in [a5dbb10](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10249/commits/a5dbb1027a0cd46890f47c0f0b6dbd11f8e462e8)

>     - update pd-client to ensure tidb-server get clusterID correctly [#36505](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36505), [#36478](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36478) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
```

`flashback cluster` is not supported in 6.3.

Author: fixed in [a5dbb10](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10249/commits/a5dbb1027a0cd46890f47c0f0b6dbd11f8e462e8)

>     - Fix that incorrect TiDB states may appear on startup under very, very, very extreme cases [#36791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36791)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
    - Fix data-race issue on start up in rare cases [#36791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36791) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
```

sql-infra

Author: fixed in [a5dbb10](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10249/commits/a5dbb1027a0cd46890f47c0f0b6dbd11f8e462e8)

>     - Fix a bug that UnionScan's Next() function skips reading data when the passed chunk's capacity is 0 [#36903](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36903)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `UNION` may returns unexpected empty result [#36903](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36903) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
```

executor

Author: fixed in [a5dbb10](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10249/commits/a5dbb1027a0cd46890f47c0f0b6dbd11f8e462e8)

>     - Fix a bug about variables information leak [#37586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37586)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `information_schema.variables_info` does not respect SEM [#37586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37586) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
```

sql-infra

Author: fixed in [a5dbb10](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10249/commits/a5dbb1027a0cd46890f47c0f0b6dbd11f8e462e8)

>         - Suppress the "cannot set inq" logs [#4940](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4940) @[LittleFall](https://github.com/LittleFall) 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Suppress the `cannot set inq` logs [#4940](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4940) @[LittleFall](https://github.com/LittleFall) 
```

>     - Fix the issue that the action order of [#37058](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37058) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
```

The issue is about test.

Author: fixed in [a5dbb10](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10249/commits/a5dbb1027a0cd46890f47c0f0b6dbd11f8e462e8)

>     - Fix the issue that comparison between json opaque will cause panic [#37315](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37315)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that comparison between json opaque causes panic [#37315](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37315) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

executor

>     - Fix the issue that the single precision float cannot be used in json aggregation funtions [#37287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37287) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer 13: executor

Author: fixed in [a5dbb10](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10249/commits/a5dbb1027a0cd46890f47c0f0b6dbd11f8e462e8)

>     - fix that the result of expression castRealAsTime is inconsistent with mysql [#37462](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37462)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
    - Improve the MySQL compatibility of `CAST` function in terms of float-to-time conversion [#37462](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37462)
```

Improvement.executor

Author: fixed in [a5dbb10](https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/10249/commits/a5dbb1027a0cd46890f47c0f0b6dbd11f8e462e8)

>         - Log DML start ts when MySQL sink meets error [#6460](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6460) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Support logging `start ts` of DML statements when MySQL sink gets an error [#6460](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6460) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
```

>         - Make the API `api/v1/health` reflects the health status of the TiCDC cluster [#4757](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

Reviewer 8: The description of this note does not match https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757.

>          - Introduce a new sink implement to increase throughput [#5928](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5928) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
         - Implement MQ sink and MySQL sink in the asynchronous mode to improve the sink throughput [#5928](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5928) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

>          - Deprecate the memory sorter and always use the unified sorter [#7087](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5928) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 8: The description does not match #7087 or https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5928.

>          - Deprecate the memory sorter and always use the unified sorter [#7087](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5928) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
```

>          - Improve replicating performance by discarding DDLs that are irrelevant with a changefeed. [#6447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6447) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
         - Improve replication performance by discarding DDL statements that are irrelevant with a changefeed [#6447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6447) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiKV doesn't distinguish the `DATETIME/DATE/TIMESTAMP/TIME` and `STRING` in json type [#13417](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13417) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that comparison between json bool and other json value is not compatible with TiDB and MySQL [#13386](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13386) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that comparison between json bool and other json value is not compatible with TiDB and MySQL [#37481](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37481) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

+ PD

    - Fix PD panics caused by the issue that gRPC handles errors inappropriately when `enable-forwarding` is enabled [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Fix the issue that unhealthy region cause panic [#5491](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5491) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Fix the bug where the Learner Peer of TiFlash Replica might not be created [#5401](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5401) @[HunDunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM)

+ TiFlash

>     - compute
> 
>         - Fix the bug that window function may cause tiflash crash when canceled [#5814](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5814) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
>         - Fix the bug that wrong data input for `cast(value as datetime)` causing high TiFlash sys CPU [#5097](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5097) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
>         - fix that the result of expression casting real or decimal as time is inconsistent with mysql [#3779](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3779) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)
> 
>     - storage
> 
>         - fix the problem that there may be some obsolete data left in storage which cannot be deleted [#5570](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5570) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
>         - Fix the bug that page GC may block creating tables [#5697](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5697) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
>         - Fix the panic issue after creating the primary index with a column containing `NULL` value [#5859](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5859) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Compute

        - Fix the bug that the WindowFunctionLeadLagBase may cause TifFlash to crash when canceled [#5814](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5814) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
        - Fix the bug that wrong data input for `date(CAST(value AS DATETIME))` causing high TiFlash sys CPU [#5097](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5097) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
        - Fix that the result of expression casting real or decimal as time is inconsistent with MySQL [#3779](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3779) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)

    - Storage

        - Fix the issue that there may be some obsolete data left in storage which cannot be deleted [#5570](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5570) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
        - Fix the bug that page GC may block creating tables [#5697](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5697) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
        - Fix the panic issue that occurs after creating the primary index with a column containing the `NULL` value [#5859](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5859) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

        - Fix a bug that the regions are not balanced because the concurrency is set too large during the restoration [#37549](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37549) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix a bug that might cause log backup checkpoint TS stuck when TiCDC exists in the cluster [#37822](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37822) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix a bug that might lead to backup and restoration failure if some special character exists in the authorization key of external storage [#37469](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37469) [@MoCuishle28](https://github.com/MoCuishle28)

    + TiCDC

        - Fix a bug that TiCDC returns an inaccurate error for a wrong PD address with a grpc service [#6458](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6458) @[crelax](https://github.com/crelax)
        - Fix a bug that the `cdc cause cli changefeed list` command does not return failed changefeeds [#6334](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6334) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

>         - Fix a bug that may cause cdc unavailable if a changefeed initializing fails  [#6859](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6859) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that TiCDC is unavailable when a changefeed initialization fails [#6859](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6859) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

### Stability

* Modify the default policy of loading statistics when statistics become outdated [#27601](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27601) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes)

    In v5.3.0, TiDB introduced the system variable [`tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats-new-in-v530) to control how the optimizer behaves when the statistics become outdated. The default value is `ON`, which means keeping the behavior of the old version: When the statistics on objects that are involved in a SQL statement are outdated, the optimizer considers that statistics (other than the total number of rows on the table) are no longer reliable and uses pseudo statistics instead. After tests and analyses of actual user scenarios, the default value of `tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats` is changed to `OFF` since v6.3.0. Even if the statistics become outdated, the optimizer will still use the statistics on the table, which makes the execution plan more stable.

* The feature of disabling Titan becomes GA @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)

>     You can [disable Titan](/titan-configuration.md#disable-titan) for online TiKV nodes.

Author: ```suggestion
    You can [disable Titan](/storage-engine/titan-configuration.md#disable-titan) for online TiKV nodes.
```

    PITR supports [GCS](/br/backup-storage-gcs.md) and [Azure Blob Storage](/br/backup-storage-azblob.md) as backup storages. If your TiDB cluster is deployed on GCP or Azure, you can use the PITR feature after upgrading your cluster to v6.3.0.

* BR supports AWS S3 Object Lock [#13442](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13442) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

    You can protect backup data on AWS from being tampered with or deleted by enabling [S3 Object Lock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lock.html).

### Data migration

* TiDB Lightning supports importing Parquet files exported by Apache Hive into TiDB [#37536](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37536) @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou)

    TiDB Lightning supports [importing Parquet files exported by Apache Hive into TiDB](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-data-source.md#parquet), thereby achieving data migration from Hive to TiDB.

* DM adds a new configuration item `safe-mode-duration` in the task configuration file [#6224](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6224) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)

>     DM adds a new configuration item `safe-mode-duration` in the [task configuration file](/task-configuration-file-full.md). You can adjust the automatic safe mode duration after DM exits abnormally. The default value is 60 seconds. If `safe-mode-duration` is set to `"0s"`, an error is reported when DM tries to enter safe mode after an abnormal restart.

Author: ```suggestion
    DM adds a new configuration item `safe-mode-duration` in the [task configuration file](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md). You can adjust the automatic safe mode duration after DM exits abnormally. The default value is 60 seconds. If `safe-mode-duration` is set to `"0s"`, an error is reported when DM tries to enter safe mode after an abnormal restart.
```

        - PITR now aggregates a batch of files, which would greatly reduce the number of backup files required [#13232](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13232) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - PITR now supports automatically configuring the number of TiFlash replicas based on the upstream cluster configuration after the restoration [#37208](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37208) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiDB Binlog

        - Fix a bug that Drainer cannot send requests correctly to Pump when compressor is set to gzip [#1152](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/issues/1152) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu)

    + TiCDC

        - Improve compatibility for MySQL 8.0 upstream [#6506](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6506) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Log DML start ts when MySQL sink meets error [#6460](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6460) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)
        - Make the API `api/v1/health` reflects the health status of the TiCDC cluster [#4757](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

>          - Introduce a new sink implement to increase throughput [#5928](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5928) @[hicqu]https://github.com/hicqu @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Author: ```suggestion
         - Introduce a new sink implement to increase throughput [#5928](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5928) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

        - Fix the issue that JSON `null` cannot be updated to `NULL` [#37852](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37852) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
        - Fix the issue that `row_count` of DDL jobs is inaccurate [#25968](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25968) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
        - Fix the issue that `FLASHBACK TABLE` does not work properly [#37386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37386) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
        - Fix the issue of failing to handle `prepared` statement flags in the typical MySQL protocol [#36731](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36731) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
        - (dup) Fix the issue of incorrect TiDB status that might appear on startup in some extreme cases [#36791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36791) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
        - Fix the issue that `information_schema.variables_info` does not comply with security enhanced mode (SEM) [#37586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37586) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

>         - Fix wrong casting in building the plan of union [#31678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31678) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that casting string to string goes wrong in queries with `UNION` [#31678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31678) @[cbcwestwolf](https://github.com/cbcwestwolf)
```

    - transaction

        - Fix the issue that pessimistic DML operations lock non-unique index keys [#36235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36235) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)
        - Fix the issue that `auto-commit` change affects transaction commit behaviours [#36581](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36581) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
        - Fix the issue that the `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` statement with DML executors might return result before the transaction commit finishes [#37373](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37373) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

    - planner

        - fix update plan's projection elimination will cause column resolution error [#37568](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37568) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
        - planner: fix outer join reorder will push down its outer join condition [#37238](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37238) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
        - make the both side operand of NAAJ & refuse partial column substitute in projection elimination [#37032](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37032) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

>         - planner: correct the redundant field meaning in join full schema when join coalesce [#36420](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36420) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

Reviewer 8: According to @chrysan, this note belongs to internal interfacing and can be removed.

## New features

### SQL

* Add a new syntactic sugar (Range INTERVAL partitioning) to simplify Range partition definitions (experimental) [#35683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35683) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

    TiDB provides [INTERVAL partitioning](/partitioned-table.md#range-interval-partitioning) as a new way of defining Range partitions. You do not need to enumerate all partitions, which drastically reduces the length of Range partitioning DDL statements. The syntax is equivalent to that of the original Range partitioning.

* Range COLUMNS partitioning supports defining multiple columns [#36636](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36636) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

    Support [PARTITION BY RANGE COLUMNS (column_list)](/partitioned-table.md#range-columns-partitioning). `column_list` is no longer limited to a single column. The basic feature is the same as MySQL.

* EXCHANGE PARTITION becomes GA [#35996](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35996) @[ymkzpx](https://github.com/ymkzpx)

    [EXCHANGE PARTITION](/partitioned-table.md#partition-management) becomes GA after performance and stability improvements.

> * TiDB supports two more [window functions](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md) [#5579](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5579) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise) **tw：shichun-0415**

Author: ```suggestion
* TiDB supports two more [window functions](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md) [#5579](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5579) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
```

    * `LEAD()`
    * `LAG()`

> * Provide lightweight metadata lock to improve the DML success rate during DDL change (experimental) [#37275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37275) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) **tw: Oreoxmt**

Author: ```suggestion
* Provide lightweight metadata lock to improve the DML success rate during DDL change (experimental) [#37275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37275) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
```

    TiDB uses the online asynchronous schema change algorithm to support changing metadata objects. When a transaction is executed, it obtains the corresponding metadata snapshot at the transaction start. If the metadata is changed during a transaction, to ensure data consistency, TiDB returns an `Information schema is changed` error and the transaction fails to commit. To solve the problem, TiDB v6.3.0 introduces [metadata lock](/metadata-lock.md) into the online DDL algorithm. To avoid DML errors whenever possible, TiDB coordinates the priority of DMLs and DDLs during table metadata change, and makes executing DDLs wait for the DMLs with old metadata to commit.

> * Improve the performance of adding indexes and reduce its impact on DML transactions (experimental) [#35983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35983) @[benjamin2037](https://github.com/benjamin2037) **tw: Oreoxmt**

Author: ```suggestion
* Improve the performance of adding indexes and reduce its impact on DML transactions (experimental) [#35983](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35983) @[benjamin2037](https://github.com/benjamin2037)
```

    To improve the speed of backfilling when creating an index, TiDB v6.3.0 accelerates the `ADD INDEX` and `CREATE INDEX` DDL operations when the [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) system variable is enabled. When the feature is enabled, the performance of adding indexes is about trippled.

### Security

* TiKV supports the SM4 algorithm for encryption at rest [#13041](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13041) @[jiayang-zheng](https://github.com/jiayang-zheng)

    Add the [SM4 algorithm](/encryption-at-rest.md) for TiKV encryption at rest. When you configure encryption at rest, you can enable the SM4 encryption capacity by setting the value of the `data-encryption-method` configuration to `sm4-ctr`.

> * TiDB supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm [#36192](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36192) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**

Author: ```suggestion
* TiDB supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm [#36192](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36192) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
```

    TiDB adds an authentication plugin [`tidb_sm3_password`](/security-compatibility-with-mysql.md) based on the SM3 algorithm. When this plugin is enabled, the user password is encrypted and validated using the SM3 algorithm.

> * TiDB JDBC supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm [#25](https://github.com/pingcap/mysql-connector-j/issues/25) @[lastincisor](https://github.com/lastincisor) **tw：ran-huang**

Author: ```suggestion
* TiDB JDBC supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm [#25](https://github.com/pingcap/mysql-connector-j/issues/25) @[lastincisor](https://github.com/lastincisor)
```

    Authenticating the user password needs client-side support. Now because [JDBC supports the SM3 algorithm](/develop/dev-guide-choose-driver-or-orm.md#java-drivers), you can connect to TiDB using SM3 authentication via TiDB-JDBC.

### Observability

> * TiDB provides fine-grained metrics of SQL query execution time [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw: Oreoxmt**
> 
>     TiDB v6.3.0 provides fine-grained data metrics for [detailed observation of execution time](/latency-breakdown.md). Through the complete and segmented metrics, you can clearly understand the main time consumption of SQL queries, and then quickly find key problems and save time in troubleshooting.
> 
> * Enhanced output for slow logs and `TRACE` statements [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw: Oreoxmt**
> 
>     TiDB v6.3.0 enhances the output of slow logs and `TRACE`. You can observe the [full-link duration](/latency-breakdown.md) of SQL queries from TiDB parsing to KV RocksDB writing to disk, which further enhances the diagnostic capabilities.
> 
> * TiDB Dashboard provides deadlock history information [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk) **tw: shichun-0415**

Author: ```suggestion
* TiDB provides fine-grained metrics of SQL query execution time [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

    TiDB v6.3.0 provides fine-grained data metrics for [detailed observation of execution time](/latency-breakdown.md). Through the complete and segmented metrics, you can clearly understand the main time consumption of SQL queries, and then quickly find key problems and save time in troubleshooting.

* Enhanced output for slow logs and `TRACE` statements [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

    TiDB v6.3.0 enhances the output of slow logs and `TRACE`. You can observe the [full-link duration](/latency-breakdown.md) of SQL queries from TiDB parsing to KV RocksDB writing to disk, which further enhances the diagnostic capabilities.

* TiDB Dashboard provides deadlock history information [#34106](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34106) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
```

### Stability

* Modify the default policy of loading statistics when statistics become outdated [#27601](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27601) @[xuyifangreeneyes](https://github.com/xuyifangreeneyes) **tw: TomShawn**

    In v5.3.0, TiDB introduced the system variable [`tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats-new-in-v530) to control how the optimizer behaves when the statistics become outdated. The default value is `ON`, which means keeping the behavior of the old version: When the statistics on objects that are involved in a SQL statement are outdated, the optimizer considers that statistics (other than the total number of rows on the table) are no longer reliable and uses pseudo statistics instead. After tests and analyses of actual user scenarios, the default value of `tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats` is changed to `OFF` since v6.3.0. Even if the statistics become outdated, the optimizer will still use the statistics on the table, which makes the execution plan more stable.

> * The feature of disabling Titan becomes GA [#issue]() @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie) **tw：ran-huang**

Author: ```suggestion
* The feature of disabling Titan becomes GA @[tabokie](https://github.com/tabokie)
```

    You can [disable Titan](/titan-configuration.md#disable-titan) for online TiKV nodes.

* Use `static` partition pruning when GlobalStats are not ready [#37535](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37535) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)

    When [`dynamic pruning`](/partitioned-table.md#dynamic-pruning-mode) is enabled, the optimizer selects execution plans based on [GlobalStats](/statistics.md#collect-statistics-of-partitioned-tables-in-dynamic-pruning-mode). Before GlobalStats are fully collected, using pseudo statistics might cause performance regression. In v6.3.0, this issue is addressed by maintaining the `static` mode if you enable dynamic pruning before GlobalStats are collected. TiDB remains in the `static` mode until GlobalStats are collected. This ensures performance stability when you change the partition pruning settings.

### Ease of use

### MySQL compatibility

> * Improve MySQL 8.0 compatibility by adding support for four regular expression functions: `REGEXP_INSTR()`, `REGEXP_LIKE()`, `REGEXP_REPLACE()`, and `REGEXP_SUBSTR()` [#23881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23881) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker) **tw: Oreoxmt**

Author: ```suggestion
* Improve MySQL 8.0 compatibility by adding support for four regular expression functions: `REGEXP_INSTR()`, `REGEXP_LIKE()`, `REGEXP_REPLACE()`, and `REGEXP_SUBSTR()` [#23881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23881) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
```

    For more details about the compatibility with MySQL, see [Regular expression compatibility with MySQL](/functions-and-operators/string-functions.md#regular-expression-compatibility-with-mysql).

* Improve compatibility of SQL-based data Placement Rules [#37171](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37171) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

    TiDB v6.0.0 provides SQL-based data Placement Rules. But this feature is not compatible with TiFlash due to conflicts in implementation mechanisms. TiDB v6.3.0 optimizes this feature, and [improves compatibility of SQL-based data Placement Rules and TiFlash](/placement-rules-in-sql.md#known-limitations).

> * The `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` statements support the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option [#37051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37051) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf) **tw：ran-huang**

Author: ```suggestion
* The `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` statements support the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option [#37051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37051) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
```

    When you create a user using the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) statement, you can specify whether the created user is locked using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option. A locked user cannot log in to the database.

    You can modify the lock state of an existing user using the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option in the [`ALTER USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-alter-user.md) statement.

> * JSON data type and JSON functions become GA [#36993](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36993) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei) **tw: qiancai**

Author: ```suggestion
* JSON data type and JSON functions become GA [#36993](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36993) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei)
```

    JSON is a popular data format adopted by a large number of programs. TiDB has introduced the [JSON support](/data-type-json.md) as an experimental feature since an earlier version, compatible with MySQL's JSON data type and some JSON functions.

    In TiDB v6.3.0, the JSON data type and functions become GA, which enriches TiDB’s data types, supports using JSON functions in [expression indexes](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-index.md#expression-index) and [generated-columns](/generated-columns.md), and further improves TiDB’s compatibility with MySQL.

### Backup and restore

> * PITR supports GCS and Azure Blob Storage as backup storages [#issue]() @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) **tw: shichun-0415**
> 
>     PITR supports [GCS](/br/backup-storage-gcs.md) and [Azure Blob Storage](/br/backup-storage-azblob.md) as backup storages. If your TiDB cluster is deployed on GCP or Azure, you can use the PITR feature after upgrading your cluster to v6.3.0.
> 
> * BR supports AWS S3 Object Lock [#issue]() @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) **tw: shichun-0415**

Author: ```suggestion
* PITR supports GCS and Azure Blob Storage as backup storages @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) **tw: shichun-0415**

    PITR supports [GCS](/br/backup-storage-gcs.md) and [Azure Blob Storage](/br/backup-storage-azblob.md) as backup storages. If your TiDB cluster is deployed on GCP or Azure, you can use the PITR feature after upgrading your cluster to v6.3.0.

* BR supports AWS S3 Object Lock [#13442](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13442) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) **tw: shichun-0415**
```

    You can protect backup data on AWS from being tampered with or deleted by enabling [S3 Object Lock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lock.html).

### Data migration

> * TiDB Lightning supports importing Parquet files exported by Apache Hive into TiDB [#issue]() @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou) **tw：ran-huang**

Author: ```suggestion
* TiDB Lightning supports importing Parquet files exported by Apache Hive into TiDB [#37536](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37536) @[buchuitoudegou](https://github.com/buchuitoudegou) **tw：ran-huang**
```

    TiDB Lightning supports [importing Parquet files exported by Apache Hive into TiDB](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-data-source.md#parquet), thereby achieving data migration from Hive to TiDB.

> * DM adds a new configuration item `safe-mode-duration` in the task configuration file [#6224] (https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6224) @[[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)] **tw：ran-huang**

Author: ```suggestion
* DM adds a new configuration item `safe-mode-duration` in the task configuration file [#6224](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6224) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw：ran-huang**
```

    DM adds a new configuration item `safe-mode-duration` in the [task configuration file](/task-configuration-file-full.md). You can adjust the automatic safe mode duration after DM exits abnormally. The default value is 60 seconds. If `safe-mode-duration` is set to `"0s"`, an error is reported when DM tries to enter safe mode after an abnormal restart.

### TiDB data share subscription

> * TiCDC supports a deployment topology that can replicate data from multiple geo-distributed data sources [#issue]() @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy) **tw：ran-huang**

Author: ```suggestion
* TiCDC supports a deployment topology that can replicate data from multiple geo-distributed data sources [#5301](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5301) @[sdojjy](https://github.com/sdojjy)
```

>     To support replicating data from a single TiDB cluster to multiple geo-distributed data systems, starting from v6.3.0, [you can deploy TiCDC in multiple IDCs](link) to replicate data for each IDC. This feature helps deliver the capability of geo-distributed data replication and deployment topology.

Author: ```suggestion
    To support replicating data from a single TiDB cluster to multiple geo-distributed data systems, starting from v6.3.0, [you can deploy TiCDC in multiple IDCs](/ticdc/deploy-ticdc.md) to replicate data for each IDC. This feature helps deliver the capability of geo-distributed data replication and deployment topology.
```

> * TiCDC supports keeping the snapshots consistent between the upstream and the downstream (sync point) [#issue]() @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw: TomShawn**

Author: ```suggestion
* TiCDC supports keeping the snapshots consistent between the upstream and the downstream (sync point) [#6977](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6977) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen) **tw: TomShawn**
```

>     In the scenarios of data replication for disaster recovery, TiCDC supports periodically maintaining a downstream data snapshot so that the downstream snapshot is consistent with the upstream snapshot. With this feature, TiCDC can better support the scenarios where reads and writes are separate, and help you lower the cost.

Author: ```suggestion
    In the scenarios of data replication for disaster recovery, TiCDC supports [periodically maintaining a downstream data snapshot](/sync-diff-inspector/upstream-downstream-diff.md#data-check-for-tidb-upstream-and-downstream-clusters) so that the downstream snapshot is consistent with the upstream snapshot. With this feature, TiCDC can better support the scenarios where reads and writes are separate, and help you lower the cost.
```

> * TiCDC supports graceful upgrade [#4757](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw:ran-huang**

Author: ```suggestion
* TiCDC supports graceful upgrade [#4757](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

    When TiCDC is deployed using [TiUP](/ticdc/deploy-ticdc.md#rolling-upgrade-ticdc-using-tiup) (>=v1.11.0) or [TiDB Operator](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/v1.3/configure-a-tidb-cluster#configure-graceful-upgrade-for-ticdc-cluster) (>=v1.3.8), you can gracefully upgrade the TiCDC cluster. During the upgrade, data replication latency is kept as low as 30 seconds. This improves stability, empowering TiCDC to better support latency-sensitive applications.

## Compatibility changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type (newly added, modified, or deleted) | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | [`default_authentication_plugin`](/system-variables.md#default_authentication_plugin) | Modified | Added a new option `tidb_sm3_password`. When this variable is set to `tidb_sm3_password`, the `tidb_sm3_password` method is used as the encryption algorithm. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| [`default_authentication_plugin`](/system-variables.md#default_authentication_plugin) | Modified | Adds a new option `tidb_sm3_password`. When this variable is set to `tidb_sm3_password`, SM3 is used as the encryption algorithm. |
```

| [`tidb_adaptive_closest_read_threshold`](/system-variables.md#tidb_adaptive_closest_read_threshold-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Controls the threshold at which the TiDB server prefers to send read requests to the replica in the same region as the TiDB server when [`tidb_replica_read`](/system-variables.md#tidb_replica_read-new-in-v40) is set to `closest-adaptive`.  |
| [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Controls when TiDB checks [unique constraints](/constraints.md#pessimistic-transactions) in pessimistic transactions. |
| [`tidb_ddl_disk_quota`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_disk_quota-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Takes effect only when [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) is enabled. It sets the usage limit of local storage during backfilling when creating an index.  |

> | [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the acceleration of `ADD INDEX` and `CREATE INDEX` DDl operations to improve the speed of backfilling when creating an index. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the acceleration of `ADD INDEX` and `CREATE INDEX` DDL operations to improve the speed of backfilling when creating an index. |
```

| [`tidb_enable_clustered_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_clustered_index-new-in-v50) | Modified | The default value of this variable changes from `INT_ONLY` to `ON`. |

> | [`tidb_enable_exchange_partition`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_exchange_partition) | Deprecated |  Controls whether to enable the [`exchange partitions with tables`](/partitioned-table.md#partition-management) feature. The default value is `ON`, that is, exchange partitions with tables is enabled by default.  |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_enable_exchange_partition`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_exchange_partition) | Deprecated |  Controls whether to enable the [`exchange partitions with tables`](/partitioned-table.md#partition-management) feature. The default value is `ON`, that is, `exchange partitions with tables` is enabled by default.  |
```

| [`tidb_enable_unsafe_substitute`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_unsafe_substitute-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Controls whether to replace expressions with generated columns in an unsafe way. |
| [`tidb_last_plan_replayer_token`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_unsafe_substitute-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Read-only and used to obtain the result of the last `PLAN REPLAYER DUMP` execution in the current session. |
| [`tidb_opt_force_inline_cte`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_force_inline_cte-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Controls whether common table expressions (CTEs) in the entire session are inlined or not. The default value is `OFF`, which means that inlining CTE is not enforced by default. |
| [`tidb_opt_three_stage_distinct_agg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_three_stage_distinct_agg-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Specifies whether to rewrite a `COUNT(DISTINCT)` aggregation into a three-stage aggregation in MPP mode. The default value is `ON`. |
| [`tidb_partition_prune_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_partition_prune_mode-new-in-v51) | Modified | Specifies whether to enable dynamic pruning. Since v6.3.0, the default value changes to `dynamic`. |

> | [`tidb_rc_read_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_read_check_ts-new-in-v600) | Modified | Used for optimizing the timestamp acquisition, which is suitable for scenarios with read-committed isolation level where read-write conflicts are rare. This feature is oriented to specific service workloads and might cause performance regression in other scenarios. For this reason, since v6.3.0, the scope of this variable changes from `GLOBAL | SESSION` to `INSTANCE`. That means you can enable this feature for specific TiDB instances. |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_rc_read_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_read_check_ts-new-in-v600) | Modified | Used for optimizing the timestamp acquisition, which is suitable for scenarios with read-committed isolation level where read-write conflicts are rare. This feature is oriented to specific service workloads and might cause performance regression in other scenarios. For this reason, since v6.3.0, the scope of this variable changes from `GLOBAL \| SESSION` to `INSTANCE`. That means you can enable this feature for specific TiDB instances. |
```

> | [`tidb_rc_write_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_write_check_ts-new-in-v630)  | Newly added | Used for optimizing the acquisition of timestamps and is suitable for scenarios with few point-write conflicts in `READ-COMMITTED` isolation level of pessimistic transactions. Enabling this variable can avoid the latency and overhead brought by obtaining the global timestamps during the execution of point-write statements |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_rc_write_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_write_check_ts-new-in-v630)  | Newly added | Used for optimizing the acquisition of timestamps and is suitable for scenarios with few point-write conflicts in read-committed isolation level of pessimistic transactions. Enabling this variable can avoid the latency and overhead brought by obtaining the global timestamps during the execution of point-write statements |
```

| DM | [`safe-mode-duration`](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md#task-configuration-file-template-advanced) | Newly added | Specifies the duration of the automatic safe mode. |
| TiCDC | [`enable-sync-point`](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#task-configuration-file) | Newly added | Specifies whether to enable the Syncpoint feature. |
| TiCDC | [`sync-point-interval`](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#task-configuration-file) | Newly added | Specifies the interval at which Syncpoint aligns the upstream and downstream snapshots. |
| TiCDC | [`sync-point-retention`](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#task-configuration-file) | Newly added | Specifies how long the data is retained by Syncpoint in the downstream table. When this duration is exceeded, the data is cleaned up. |
| TiCDC | [`sink-uri.memory`](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#create-a-replication-task) | Deprecated | This configuration item is deprecated. It is not recommended to use it in any situation. |

### Others

* Log backup supports GCS and Azure Blob Storage as backup storage.
* Log backup is now compatible with the `exchange partition` DDL.

> * The SQL statement `ALTER TABLE ...SET TiFLASH MODE ...` previously used for enabling [fastscan](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md) is deprecated, and replaced by the system variable [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630). When you upgrade from v6.2.0 to v6.3.0, all FastScan settings in v6.2.0 will become invalid, but will not affect the normal reading of data. In this case, you need to configure the variable [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630) to enable or disable FastScan. When you upgrade from an earlier version to v6.3.0, the FastScan feature is not enabled by default for all sessions to keep data consistent.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
```

> * The SQL statement `ALTER TABLE ...SET TiFLASH MODE ...` previously used for enabling [fastscan](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md) is deprecated, and replaced by the system variable [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630). When you upgrade from v6.2.0 to v6.3.0, all FastScan settings in v6.2.0 will become invalid, but will not affect the normal reading of data. In this case, you need to configure the variable [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630) to enable or disable FastScan. When you upgrade from an earlier version to v6.3.0, the FastScan feature is not enabled by default for all sessions to keep data consistent.

Author: @hfxsd 这处内容既是新功能描述的内容，也需要作为兼容性变更体现哈，具体背景见飞书消息。

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - sql-infra

        - TiDB is now case-insensitive to the target table name when checking the table existence [#34610](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34610) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
        - Improve MySQL compatibility by adding a parsing check when setting the value of `init_connect` [#35324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35324) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
        - Improve the log warning generated for new connections [#34964](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34964) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei)
        - Optimize the HTTP API for querying DDL history jobs, and add support for the `start_job_id` parameter [#35838](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35838) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

    - execution

        - Report errors when the JSON path has wrong syntax [#22525](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/22525) [#34959](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34959) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei)

>         - Improve the performance of Join operations by fixing a false sharing issue [#37641](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37641)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Improve the performance of Join operations by fixing a false sharing issue [#37641](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37641) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
```

>         - Improve the MySQL compatibility of the `CAST` function for the float-to-time conversion [#37462](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37462) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)

Author: issue 的 label 是 major bug，可能放在 bug fix 更合适，建议改成：
```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the result of the `castRealAsTime` expression is inconsistent with MySQL [#37462](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37462) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)
```

    - planner

>         - planner: just pop cte's handleHelper map out since it shouldn't be considered [#35758](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35758) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

Author: ```suggestion
```

>         - [`PLAN REPLAYER`](/sql-plan-replayer) can be used on multiple SQL statements, which makes troubleshooting more efficient [#37798](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37798) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
        - Support exporting the execution plan information of multiple SQL statements at a time using [`PLAN REPLAYER`](/sql-plan-replayer.md), which makes troubleshooting more efficient [#37798](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37798) @[Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer)
```

    - Support more regular expression functions [#13483](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13483) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - Support automatically adjusting the thread pool size based on the CPU usage [#13313](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13313) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

+ PD

    - Improve the query of the TiKV IO MBps metric in TiDB Dashboard [#5366](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5366) @[YiniXu9506](https://github.com/YiniXu9506)
    - Modify the URL in TiDB Dashboard from `metrics` to `monitoring` [#5366](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5366) @[YiniXu9506](https://github.com/YiniXu9506)

+ TiFlash

    - Compute

        - Support to push down the `elt` function to TiFlash [#5104](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5104) @[Willendless](https://github.com/Willendless)
        - Support to push down the `leftShift` function to TiFlash [#5099](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5099) @[AnnieoftheStars](https://github.com/AnnieoftheStars)
        - Support to push down the `castTimeAsDuration` function to TiFlash [#5306](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5306) @[AntiTopQuark](https://github.com/AntiTopQuark)

>         - Refactor TiFlash's interpreter, and support the new interpreter Planner [#4739](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4739) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
>         - Support to push down the `HexIntArg/HexStrArg` function to TiFlash [#5107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5107) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
               - Support to push down the `HexIntArg/HexStrArg` function to TiFlash [#5107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5107) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
                - Refactor TiFlash's interpreter, and support the new interpreter Planner [#4739](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4739) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
```

>         - Support to push down the `castTimeAsDuration` function to TiFlash [#5306](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5306) @[AntiTopQuark](https://github.com/AntiTopQuark)
>                - Support to push down the `HexIntArg/HexStrArg` function to TiFlash [#5107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5107) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
>                 - Refactor TiFlash's interpreter, and support the new interpreter Planner [#4739](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4739) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Support to push down the `castTimeAsDuration` function to TiFlash [#5306](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5306) @[AntiTopQuark](https://github.com/AntiTopQuark)
        - Support to push down the `HexIntArg/HexStrArg` function to TiFlash [#5107](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5107) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
        - Refactor TiFlash's interpreter, and support the new interpreter Planner [#4739](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4739) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
```

>         - Suppress the "cannot set inq" logs [#4940](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4940)
>         - Improve the accuracy of memory tracker in TiFlash [#5609](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5609)
>         - Improve the performance of string columns with the `UTF8_BIN/ASCII_BIN/LATIN1_BIN/UTF8MB4_BIN` collations [#5294](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5294)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Suppress the "cannot set inq" logs [#4940](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/4940) @[LittleFall](https://github.com/LittleFall) 
        - Improve the accuracy of memory tracker in TiFlash [#5609](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5609) @[bestwoody](https://github.com/bestwoody)
        - Improve the performance of string columns with the `UTF8_BIN/ASCII_BIN/LATIN1_BIN/UTF8MB4_BIN` collations [#5294](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5294) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
```

         - Deprecate the memory sorter and always use the unified sorter [#7087](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5928) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
         - Delete the deprecated pulsar sink [#7087](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7087) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
         - Improve replicating performance by discarding DDLs that are irrelevant with a changefeed. [#6447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6447) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - Improve compatibility with MySQL 8.0 as data source [#6448](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6448) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Optimize DDL by executing DDL asynchronously when encounter "invalid connection" [#4689](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4689) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Add query parameters for S3 external storage URL to support accessing the S3 data in another account by assuming a given role [#36891](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36891) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - sql-infra

>         - Fix the issue that the privilege check is skipped for `PREAPRE` statements [#35784](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35784) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the privilege check is skipped for `PREPARE` statements [#35784](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35784) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

        - Fix the issue that JSON `null` cannot be updated to `NULL` [#37852](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37852) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
        - Fix the issue that `row_count` of DDL jobs is inaccurate [#25968](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25968) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
        - Fix the issue that `FLASHBACK TABLE` does not work properly [#37386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37386) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
        - Fix the issue of failing to handle `prepared` statement flags in the typical MySQL protocol [#36731](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36731) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
        - (dup) Fix the issue of incorrect TiDB status that might appear on startup in some extreme cases [#36791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36791) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
        - Fix the issue that `information_schema.variables_info` does not comply with security enhanced mode (SEM) [#37586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37586) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

> 

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix wrong casting in building the plan of union [#31678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31678) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix wrong casting in building the plan of union [#31678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31678) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)
```

    - execution

        - Fix the wrong result that occurs when enabling dynamic mode in partitioned tables for TiFlash [#37254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37254) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)

>         - Fix the issue that the cast and comparison between binary strings and JSON are incompatible with MySQL [#31918](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31918) [#25053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25053) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the cast and comparison between binary strings and JSON in TiDB are incompatible with MySQL [#31918](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31918) [#25053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25053) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

        - Fix the issue that `json_objectagg` and `json_arrayagg` in TiDB are not compatible with MySQL on binary values [#25053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25053) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
        - Fix the issue that the comparison between JSON opaque values causes panic [#37315](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37315) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
        - Fix the issue that the single precision float cannot be used in JSON aggregation funtions [#37287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37287) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
        - Fix the issue that the `UNION` operator might return unexpected empty result [#36903](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36903) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

    - transaction

>         - Fix the issue that pessimistic DML operations lock non-unique index keys [#36235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36235)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that pessimistic DML operations lock non-unique index keys [#36235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36235) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)
```

>         - Fix the transaction commit behaviours related to auto-commit mode change [#36581](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36581) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that `auto-commit` change affects transaction commit behaviours [#36581](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36581) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
```

>         - Fix the issue that the `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` statement with DML executors might return result before the transaction commit has finished [#37273](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37373) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` statement with DML executors might return result before the transaction commit finishes [#37373](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37373) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)
```

    - planner

        - fix update plan's projection elimination will cause column resolution error [#37568](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37568) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
        - planner: fix outer join reorder will push down its outer join condition [#37238](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37238) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
        - make the both side operand of NAAJ & refuse partial column substitute in projection elimination [#37032](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37032) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
        - planner: correct the redundant field meaning in join full schema when join coalesce [#36420](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36420) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

>         - Fix a wrong casting in building union plan [#31678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31678) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that `Can't find column` is reported if an `UPDATE` statement contains a CTE [#35758](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35758) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiKV does not distinguish the datetime type (`DATETIME`, `DATE`, `TIMESTAMP` and `TIME`) and `STRING` type in JSON [#13417](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13417) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix incompatibility with MySQL of comparison between JSON bool and other JSON value [#13386](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13386) [#37481](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37481) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

+ PD

    - (dup) Fix PD panics caused by the issue that gRPC handles errors inappropriately when `enable-forwarding` is enabled [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Fix the issue that unhealthy Region might cause PD panic [#5491](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5491) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Fix the bug that the TiFlash learner replica might not be created [#5401](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5401) @[HunDunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM)

+ TiFlash

    - Compute

>         - Fix the bug that the window function may cause TifFlash to crash when the query is canceled [#5814](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5814) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that the window function may cause TiFlash to crash when the query is canceled [#5814](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5814) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
```

        - Fix the bug that wrong data input for `date(CAST(value AS DATETIME))` causing high TiFlash sys CPU [#5097](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5097) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

>         - Fix that the result of expression casting real or decimal as time is inconsistent with MySQL [#3779](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3779) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Fix that issue that the result of `cast(Real/Decimal)AsTime` is inconsistent with MySQL [#3779](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/3779) @[mengxin9014](https://github.com/mengxin9014)
```

        - (dup) Fix goroutine leak when relay meets an error [#6193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6193) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Fix the bug that when `collation_compatible` is set to `"strict"`, DM might generate SQL with duplicated collation [#6832](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6832) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Reduce the appearance of the warning message "found error when get timezone from binlog status_vars" in DM-worker log [#6628](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6628) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001)
        - Fix a bug that latin1 data might be corrupt during replication [#7028](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7028) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - (dup) Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not support columns starting with slash, number, or non-ascii characters in Parquet files [#36980](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36980) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

> 
>     - TiUP
> 
>         - note [#issue]() @[Contributor GitHub ID]()

Author: ```suggestion
```

| [`tidb_last_plan_replayer_token`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_unsafe_substitute-new-in-v630) | Newly added | This variable is read-only and is used to obtain the result of the last `PLAN REPLAYER DUMP` execution in the current session. |
| [`tidb_opt_force_inline_cte`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_force_inline_cte-new-in-v630) | Newly added | This variable is used to control whether common table expressions (CTEs) in the entire session are inlined or not. The default value is `OFF`, which means that inlining CTE is not enforced by default. |
| [`tidb_opt_three_stage_distinct_agg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_three_stage_distinct_agg-new-in-v630) | Newly added | This variable specifies whether to rewrite a `COUNT(DISTINCT)` aggregation into a three-stage aggregation in MPP mode. The default value is `ON`. |
| [`tidb_partition_prune_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_partition_prune_mode-new-in-v51) | Modified | Specifies whether to enable dynamic pruning. Since v6.3.0, the default value changes to `dynamic`. |

> | [`tidb_rc_read_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_read_check_ts-new-in-v600) | Modified | This variable is used to optimize the timestamp acquisition, which is suitable for scenarios with read-committed isolation level where read-write conflicts are rare. This feature is oriented to specific service workloads and might cause performance regression in other scenarios. For this reason, since v6.3.0, the scope of this variable changes from `GLOBAL | SESSION` to `INSTANCE`. That means you can enable this feature for specific TiDB instances. |
> | [`tidb_rc_write_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_write_check_ts-new-in-v630)  | Newly added | This variable is used to optimize the acquisition of timestamps and is suitable for scenarios with few point-write conflicts in `READ-COMMITTED` isolation level of pessimistic transactions. Enabling this variable can avoid the latency and overhead brought by obtaining the global timestamps during the execution of point-write statements |
> | [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630) | Newly added | This variable controls whether to enable FastScan. If [FastScan](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md) is enabled (set to `ON`), TiFlash provides more efficient query performance, but does not guarantee the accuracy of the query results or data consistency. |
> | [`sql_require_primary_key`](/system-variables.md#sql_require_primary_key-new-in-v630)   | Newly added  |  This variable controls whether to enforce the requirement that a table has a primary key. After this variable is enabled, attempting to create or alter a table without a primary key will produce an error.  |
> | [`tidb_ddl_flashback_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_flashback_concurrency-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Controls the concurrency of `flashback cluster`. The feature controlled by this variable is not fully functional in the current TiDB version. Do not change the default value.  |
> | [`tidb_enable_foreign_key`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_foreign_key-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Controls whether to enable the `FOREIGN KEY` feature. The feature controlled by this variable is not fully functional in the current TiDB version. Do not change the default value.  |
> | [`tidb_enable_general_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_general_plan_cache-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Controls whether to enable the General Plan Cache feature. The feature controlled by this variable is not fully functional in the current TiDB version. Do not change the default value.  |
> | [`tidb_enable_null_aware_anti_join`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_null_aware_anti_join-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Controls whether TiDB applies Null Aware Hash Join when ANTI JOIN is generated by subqueries led by special set operators `NOT IN` and `!= ALL`. |
> | [`tidb_enable_tiflash_read_for_write_stmt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_tiflash_read_for_write_stmt-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Controls whether read requests in SQL write statements are pushed down to TiFlash. The feature controlled by this variable is not fully functional in the current TiDB version. Do not change the default value.  |
> | [`tidb_general_plan_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_general_plan_cache_size-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of execution plans that can be cached by General Plan Cache. The feature controlled by this variable is not fully functional in the current TiDB version. Do not change the default value.  |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_rc_read_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_read_check_ts-new-in-v600) | Modified | Used for optimizing the timestamp acquisition, which is suitable for scenarios with read-committed isolation level where read-write conflicts are rare. This feature is oriented to specific service workloads and might cause performance regression in other scenarios. For this reason, since v6.3.0, the scope of this variable changes from `GLOBAL | SESSION` to `INSTANCE`. That means you can enable this feature for specific TiDB instances. |
| [`tidb_rc_write_check_ts`](/system-variables.md#tidb_rc_write_check_ts-new-in-v630)  | Newly added | Used for optimizing the acquisition of timestamps and is suitable for scenarios with few point-write conflicts in `READ-COMMITTED` isolation level of pessimistic transactions. Enabling this variable can avoid the latency and overhead brought by obtaining the global timestamps during the execution of point-write statements |
| [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable FastScan. If [FastScan](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md) is enabled (set to `ON`), TiFlash provides more efficient query performance, but does not guarantee the accuracy of the query results or data consistency. |
| [`sql_require_primary_key`](/system-variables.md#sql_require_primary_key-new-in-v630)   | Newly added  | Controls whether to enforce the requirement that a table has a primary key. After this variable is enabled, attempting to create or alter a table without a primary key will produce an error.  |
| [`tidb_ddl_flashback_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_flashback_concurrency-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Controls the concurrency of `flashback cluster`. The feature controlled by this variable is not fully functional in the current TiDB version. Do not change the default value.  |
| [`tidb_enable_foreign_key`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_foreign_key-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Controls whether to enable the `FOREIGN KEY` feature. The feature controlled by this variable is not fully functional in the current TiDB version. Do not change the default value.  |
| [`tidb_enable_general_plan_cache`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_general_plan_cache-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Controls whether to enable the General Plan Cache feature. The feature controlled by this variable is not fully functional in the current TiDB version. Do not change the default value.  |
| [`tidb_enable_null_aware_anti_join`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_null_aware_anti_join-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Controls whether TiDB applies Null Aware Hash Join when ANTI JOIN is generated by subqueries led by special set operators `NOT IN` and `!= ALL`. |
| [`tidb_enable_tiflash_read_for_write_stmt`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_tiflash_read_for_write_stmt-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Controls whether read requests in SQL write statements are pushed down to TiFlash. The feature controlled by this variable is not fully functional in the current TiDB version. Do not change the default value.  |
| [`tidb_general_plan_cache_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_general_plan_cache_size-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of execution plans that can be cached by General Plan Cache. The feature controlled by this variable is not fully functional in the current TiDB version. Do not change the default value.  |
```

| DM | [`safe-mode-duration`](/dm/task-configuration-file-full.md#task-configuration-file-template-advanced) | Newly added | Specifies the duration of the automatic safe mode. |
| TiCDC | [`enable-sync-point`](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#task-configuration-file) | Newly added | Specifies whether to enable the Syncpoint feature. |
| TiCDC | [`sync-point-interval`](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#task-configuration-file) | Newly added | Specifies the interval at which Syncpoint aligns the upstream and downstream snapshots. |
| TiCDC | [`sync-point-retention`](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#task-configuration-file) | Newly added | Specifies how long the data is retained by Syncpoint in the downstream table. When this duration is exceeded, the data is cleaned up. |
| TiCDC | [`sink-uri.memory`](/ticdc/manage-ticdc.md#create-a-replication-task) | Deprecated | This configuration item is deprecated. It is not recommended to use it in any situation. |

### Others

> * Improve MySQL compatibility by supporting the `ACCOUNT LOCK` and `ACCOUNT UNLOCK` options.

Author: ```suggestion
```

* Log backup supports GCS and Azure Blob Storage as backup storage.
* Log backup is now compatible with the `exchange partition` DDL.

> * The SQL statement `ALTER TABLE ...SET TiFLASH MODE ...` previously used for enabling [fastscan](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md) is deprecated, and replaced by the system variable [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630). When you upgrade from v6.2.0 to v6.3.0, all FastScan settings in v6.2.0 will become invalid, but will not affect the normal reading of data. You need to set the variable [`tiflash_fastscan`]. When you upgrade from an earlier version to v6.3.0, the FastScan feature is not enabled by default for all sessions to keep data consistency.

Author: ```suggestion
* The SQL statement `ALTER TABLE ...SET TiFLASH MODE ...` previously used for enabling [fastscan](/develop/dev-guide-use-fastscan.md) is deprecated, and replaced by the system variable [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630). When you upgrade from v6.2.0 to v6.3.0, all FastScan settings in v6.2.0 will become invalid, but will not affect the normal reading of data. In this case, you need to configure the variable [`tiflash_fastscan`](/system-variables.md#tiflash_fastscan-new-in-v630) to enable or disable FastScan. When you upgrade from an earlier version to v6.3.0, the FastScan feature is not enabled by default for all sessions to keep data consistent.
```

## Removed feature

Since v6.3.0, TiCDC no longer supports configuring Pulsar sink. [kop](https://github.com/streamnative/kop) provided by StreamNative can be used as an alternative.

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - sql-infra

>         - TiDB is now case insensitive to the target table name when checking the table existence [#34610](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34610) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
>         - Improved MySQL compatibility by adding the parsing process on the value of `init_connect` [#35324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35324) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
>         - Improve log warning generated when new connections arrive [#34964](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34964) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei)
>         - Optimize the HTTP API for querying DDL history jobs, and add support for the `start_job_id` parameter [#35838](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35838) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - TiDB is now case-insensitive to the target table name when checking the table existence [#34610](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34610) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
        - Improve MySQL compatibility by adding a parsing check when setting the value of `init_connect` [#35324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35324) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
        - Improve the log warning generated for new connections [#34964](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34964) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei)
        - Optimize the HTTP API for querying DDL history jobs, and add support for the `start_job_id` parameter [#35838](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35838) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
```

         - Deprecate the memory sorter and always use the unified sorter [#7087](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/5928) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
         - Delete the deprecated pulsar sink [#7087](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/7087) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
         - Improve replicating performance by discarding DDLs that are irrelevant with a changefeed. [#6447](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6447) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - Improve compatibility with MySQL 8.0 as data source [#6448](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/6448) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
        - Optimize DDL by executing DDL asynchronously when encounter "invalid connection" [#4689](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4689) @[lyzx2001](https://github.com/lyzx2001)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - Add query parameters for S3 external storage URL to support accessing the S3 data in another account by assuming a given role [#36891](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36891) @[dsdashun](https://github.com/dsdashun)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - sql-infra

>         - Fix the issue that privilege check is skipped for `PREAPRE` statements [#35784](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35784) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the privilege check is skipped for `PREPARE` statements [#35784](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35784) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```
(including the suggestion by @TomShawn )

>         - Fix the issue that privilege check is skipped for `PREAPRE` statements [#35784](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35784) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the privilege check is skipped for `PREAPRE` statements [#35784](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35784) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

>         - Fix the issue that the system variable `tidb_enable_noop_variable` cannot be set to `WARN` [#36647](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36647) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the system variable `tidb_enable_noop_variable` can be set to `WARN` [#36647](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36647) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

>         - Fix the issue that when 'expression index' is defined, the `ORDINAL_POSITION` column of the `INFORMAITON_SCHEMA`.`COLUMNS` table might be incorrect [#31200](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31200) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that when an expression index is defined, the `ORDINAL_POSITION` column of the `INFORMAITON_SCHEMA`.`COLUMNS` table might be incorrect [#31200](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31200) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)
```

        - Fix the issue that TiDB does not report an error when the timestamp is larger than `MAXINT32` [#31585](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31585) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)
        - Fix the issue that TiDB server cannot be started when the enterprise plugin is used [#37319](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37319) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
        - Fix the incorrect output of `SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY` [#37526](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37526) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)

>         - Fix unexpected exchange partition with temporary tables [#37201](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37201) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - Fix the unexpected `EXCHANGE PARTITION` behaviors with temporary tables [#37201](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37201) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

        - Fix the issue that querying `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` returns an incorrect result @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
        - Fix the issue that the `EXPLAIN` query on views does not check privileges [#34326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34326) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
        - Fix the issue that JSON `null` cannot be updated to `NULL` [#37852](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37852) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
        - Fix the issue that `row_count` of DDL jobs is inaccurate [#25968](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25968) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
        - Fix the issue that `FLASHBACK TABLE` does not work properly [#37386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37386) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

>         - Fix handling of prepared statement flags in the classic MySQL protocol [#36731](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36731) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue of failing to handle `prepared` statement flags in the typical MySQL protocol [#36731](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36731) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
```

        - (dup) Fix the issue of incorrect TiDB status that might appear on startup in some extreme cases [#36791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36791) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)

>         - Fix the issue that `information_schema.variables_info` does not respect SEM [#37586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37586) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that `information_schema.variables_info` does not comply with security enhanced mode (SEM) [#37586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37586) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
```

    - Fix the issue that TiKV does not distinguish the datetime type (`DATETIME`, `DATE`, `TIMESTAMP` and `TIME`) and `STRING` type in JSON [#13417](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13417) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix incompatibility with MySQL of comparison between JSON bool and other JSON value [#13386](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/13386) [#37481](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37481) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

+ PD

    - (dup) Fix PD panics caused by the issue that gRPC handles errors inappropriately when `enable-forwarding` is enabled [#5373](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5373) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Fix the issue that unhealthy Region might cause PD panic [#5491](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5491) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Fix the bug that the TiFlash learner replica might not be created [#5401](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5401) @[HunDunDM](https://github.com/HunDunDM)

+ TiFlash

    - Compute

>         - Fix the bug that the WindowFunctionLeadLagBase may cause TifFlash to crash when canceled [#5814](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5814) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that the window function may cause TifFlash to crash when canceled [#5814](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/5814) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
```

* TiCDC supports graceful upgrade [#4757](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4757) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand) **tw:ran-huang**

    When TiCDC is deployed using [TiUP](/ticdc/deploy-ticdc.md#rolling-upgrade-ticdc-using-tiup) (>=v1.11.0) or [TiDB Operator](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/v1.3/configure-a-tidb-cluster#configure-graceful-upgrade-for-ticdc-cluster) (>=v1.3.8), you can gracefully upgrade the TiCDC cluster. During the upgrade, data replication latency is kept as low as 30 seconds. This improves stability, empowering TiCDC to better support latency-sensitive applications.

## Compatibility changes

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type (newly added, modified, or deleted) | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [`default_authentication_plugin`](/system-variables.md#default_authentication_plugin) | Modified | Added a new option `tidb_sm3_password`. When this variable is set to `tidb_sm3_password`, the `tidb_sm3_password` method is used as the encryption algorithm. |

> | [`tidb_adaptive_closest_read_threshold`](/system-variables.md#tidb_adaptive_closest_read_threshold-new-in-v630) | Newly added | This variable is used to control the threshold at which the TiDB server prefers to send read requests to the replica in the same region as the TiDB server when [`tidb_replica_read`](#tidb_replica_read-new-in-v40) is set to `closest-adaptive`. |
> | [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-new-in-v630) | Newly added | This variable is used to control when TiDB checks [unique constraints](/constraints.md#pessimistic-transactions) in pessimistic transactions |
> | [`tidb_ddl_disk_quota`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_disk_quota-new-in-v630) | Newly added | This variable only takes effect when [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) is enabled. It sets the usage limit of local storage during backfilling when creating an index.  |
> | [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) | Newly added | This variable controls whether to enable the acceleration of `ADD INDEX` and `CREATE INDEX` DDl operations to improve the speed of backfilling when creating an index. |
> | [`tidb_enable_clustered_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_clustered_index-new-in-v50) | Modified | The default value of this variable changes from `INT_ONLY` to `ON`. |
> | [`tidb_enable_exchange_partition`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_exchange_partition) | Deprecated | This variable controls whether to enable the [`exchange partitions with tables`](/partitioned-table.md#partition-management) feature. The default value is `ON`, that is, exchange partitions with tables is enabled by default.  |
> | [`tidb_enable_metadata_lock`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_metadata_lock-new-in-v630)| Newly added | This variable is used to set whether to enable the [Metadata lock](/metadata-lock.md) feature. |
> | [`tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats-new-in-v530) | Modified | This variable controls the behavior of the optimizer on using statistics of a table when the statistics are outdated. The default value changes from `ON` to `OFF`, which means the optimizer still keeps using the statistics of the table even if the statistics of this table is outdated. |
> | [`tidb_enable_rate_limit_action`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_rate_limit_action) | Modified | This variable controls whether to enable the dynamic memory control feature for the operator that reads data. When this variable is set to `ON`, the memory usage might not be under the control of [tidb_mem_quota_query](/system-variables.md#tidb_mem_quota_query). Therefore, the default value is changed from `ON` to `OFF`. |
> | [`tidb_enable_unsafe_substitute`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_unsafe_substitute-new-in-v630) | Newly added | This variable controls whether to replace expressions with generated columns in an unsafe way. |
> | [`tidb_last_plan_replayer_token`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_unsafe_substitute-new-in-v630) | Newly added | This variable is read-only and is used to obtain the result of the last `PLAN REPLAYER DUMP` execution in the current session. |
> | [`tidb_opt_force_inline_cte`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_force_inline_cte-new-in-v630) | Newly added | This variable is used to control whether common table expressions (CTEs) in the entire session are inlined or not. The default value is `OFF`, which means that inlining CTE is not enforced by default. |
> | [`tidb_opt_three_stage_distinct_agg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_three_stage_distinct_agg-new-in-v630) | Newly added | This variable specifies whether to rewrite a `COUNT(DISTINCT)` aggregation into a three-stage aggregation in MPP mode. The default value is `ON`. |
> | [`tidb_partition_prune_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_partition_prune_mode-new-in-v51) | Modified | Specifies whether to enable dynamic pruning. Since v6.3.0, the default value changes to `dynamic`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_adaptive_closest_read_threshold`](/system-variables.md#tidb_adaptive_closest_read_threshold-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Controls the threshold at which the TiDB server prefers to send read requests to the replica in the same region as the TiDB server when [`tidb_replica_read`](/system-variables.md#tidb_replica_read-new-in-v40) is set to `closest-adaptive`.  |
| [`tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic`](/system-variables.md#tidb_constraint_check_in_place_pessimistic-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Controls when TiDB checks [unique constraints](/constraints.md#pessimistic-transactions) in pessimistic transactions. |
| [`tidb_ddl_disk_quota`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_disk_quota-new-in-v630) | Newly added |  Takes effect only when [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) is enabled. It sets the usage limit of local storage during backfilling when creating an index.  |
| [`tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable the acceleration of `ADD INDEX` and `CREATE INDEX` DDl operations to improve the speed of backfilling when creating an index. |
| [`tidb_enable_clustered_index`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_clustered_index-new-in-v50) | Modified | The default value of this variable changes from `INT_ONLY` to `ON`. |
| [`tidb_enable_exchange_partition`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_exchange_partition) | Deprecated |  Controls whether to enable the [`exchange partitions with tables`](/partitioned-table.md#partition-management) feature. The default value is `ON`, that is, exchange partitions with tables is enabled by default.  |
| [`tidb_enable_metadata_lock`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_metadata_lock-new-in-v630)| Newly added | Specifies whether to enable the [Metadata lock](/metadata-lock.md) feature. |
| [`tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_pseudo_for_outdated_stats-new-in-v530) | Modified | Controls the behavior of the optimizer on using statistics of a table when the statistics are outdated. The default value changes from `ON` to `OFF`, which means the optimizer still keeps using the statistics of the table even if the statistics of this table are outdated. |
| [`tidb_enable_rate_limit_action`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_rate_limit_action) | Modified | Controls whether to enable the dynamic memory control feature for the operator that reads data. When this variable is set to `ON`, the memory usage might not be under the control of [tidb_mem_quota_query](/system-variables.md#tidb_mem_quota_query). Therefore, the default value is changed from `ON` to `OFF`. |
| [`tidb_enable_unsafe_substitute`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_unsafe_substitute-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Controls whether to replace expressions with generated columns in an unsafe way. |
| [`tidb_last_plan_replayer_token`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_unsafe_substitute-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Read-only and used to obtain the result of the last `PLAN REPLAYER DUMP` execution in the current session. |
| [`tidb_opt_force_inline_cte`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_force_inline_cte-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Controls whether common table expressions (CTEs) in the entire session are inlined or not. The default value is `OFF`, which means that inlining CTE is not enforced by default. |
| [`tidb_opt_three_stage_distinct_agg`](/system-variables.md#tidb_opt_three_stage_distinct_agg-new-in-v630) | Newly added | Specifies whether to rewrite a `COUNT(DISTINCT)` aggregation into a three-stage aggregation in MPP mode. The default value is `ON`. |
| [`tidb_partition_prune_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_partition_prune_mode-new-in-v51) | Modified | Specifies whether to enable dynamic pruning. Since v6.3.0, the default value changes to `dynamic`. |
```

---
title: TiDB 6.3.0 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 6.3.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2022

TiDB version: 6.3.0-DMR

In v6.3.0-DMR, the key new features and improvements are as follows:

- TiKV support SM4 encryption at rest.
- TiDB supports authentication with the SM3 algorithm.
- The `CREATE USER` and `ALTER USER` statements support the `ACCOUNT LOCK/UNLOCK` option.
- JSON data type and functions become generally available (GA).
- TiDB supports null-aware anti join.
- TiDB provides execution time metrics at a finer granularity.

> - A new syntactic sugar is added to simplify Range partition definitions.

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
- A new syntactic sugar is added to simplify range partition definitions.
```

- Range COLUMNS partitioning supports defining multiple columns.

## New features

### SQL

> * Add a new syntactic sugar (Range INTERVAL partitioning) to simplify Range partition definitions [#35683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35683) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
* Add a new syntactic sugar (Range INTERVAL partitioning) to simplify range partition definitions [#35683](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35683) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss)
```

    - improve warning log when new connection arrives [#34964](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34964) @[xiongjiwei](https://github.com/xiongjiwei)

    - sql-infra

        - Extend partitioning syntax with INTERVAL for easier partitioning definition [#35827](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35827) @[ymkzpx](https://github.com/ymkzpx)
        - Grant privilege of a table to an user checks the target table exist first, in the past, the table name comparison works in a case sensitive manner, now it's changed to case insensitive [#34610](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34610) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
        - Support AWS NLB proxy protocol [#36312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36312) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
        - Previously, TiDB users can set `init_connect` without any checking. From now on, the value of `init_connect` should be checked by the sql parser [#35324](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35324) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

>         - Add support `flashback database` command [#37386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37386) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
```

This is a bugfix about `FLASHBACK TABLE`.

    - Fix that incorrect TiDB states may appear on startup under very, very, very extreme cases [#36791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36791)
    - Fix a bug that UnionScan's Next() function skips reading data when the passed chunk's capacity is 0 [#36903](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36903)
    - Fix a bug about variables information leak [#37586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37586)
    - Fix the issue that the action order of [#37058](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37058) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that comparison between json opaque will cause panic [#37315](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37315)
    - Fix the issue that the single precision float cannot be used in json aggregation funtions [#37287](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37287) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - fix that the result of expression castRealAsTime is inconsistent with mysql [#37462](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37462)

    - sql-infra

>         - fix the bug prepare will not check privilege [#35784](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35784) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that `PREAPRE` statements do not check privileges [#35784](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35784) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

>         - When set `tidb_enable_noop_variable` to `WARN`, an error will be returned [#36647](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36647) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
        - System variable `tidb_enable_noop_variable` cannot be set to `WARN` [#36647](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36647) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

        - Fix the issue that when 'expression index' is defined, the value of `ORDINAL_POSITION` column of `INFORMAITON_SCHEMA`.`COLUMNS` table might be incorrect [#31200](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31200) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)
        - Fix the issue that when setting a timestamp that is larger than `MAXINT32`, TiDB doesn't report an error like MySQL [#31585](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31585) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)

>         - flashback cluster shouldn't support expr in timestamp [#37495](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37495) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 14: maybe delete all `flashback cluster` related info. The feature will not support in 6.3.0.

>         - flashback cluster shouldn't support expr in timestamp [#37495](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37495) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
```

`flashback cluster` is not supported in 6.3.0.

>         - Fix panic of enterprise plugin on 6.1 [#37319](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37319)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
        - Fix the panic issue of enterprise plugin on 6.1 [#37319](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37319) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
```

>         - Fix incorrect output of `show create placement policy` with a policy of double quotes [#37526](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37526) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
        - Fix the incorrect output of `SHOW CREATE PLACEMENT POLICY` [#37526](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37526) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)
```

>         - store flashback history in TiKV, avoid overlapped flashback TS range [#37585](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37585) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
```
`flashback cluster` is not supported in 6.3.0.

>         - When exchange partition with temporary table, an error will be returned [#37201](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37201)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
        - Disallow exchange partition with temporary table [#37201](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37201) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)
```

>         - planner: fix partition table getting error result when select `TIKV_REGION_STATUS` with `table_id` [#37436](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37436) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that query on `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIKV_REGION_STATUS` returns an incorrect result @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
```

>         - In test_driver, parser didn't deal with RestoreStringWithoutCharset and RestoreStringWithoutDefaultCharset flags, add support for those two flags [#37175](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37175) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
```

We don't have to mention the improvement for test code.

>         - planner: fix show View Privilege behave for view table [#34326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34326) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that `EXPLAIN` query on views does not check privileges [#34326](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/34326) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
```

>         - Support send flashback RPC [#37651](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37651) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
```

`flashback cluster` is not supported in 6.3.0.

>         - Fix a wrong casting in building union plan [#31678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31678) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
```

Move to planner.

>         - support some adminStmt in read-only mode [#37631](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37631) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
>         - fix resume pd schedule and cancel for `flashback cluster` [#37584](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37584) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
>         - fix resume pd schedule and cancel for `flashback cluster` [#37580](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37580) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
```

`flashback cluster` is not supported in 6.3.0.

>         - Fix the issue that the user cannot update from json 'null' to NULL [#37852](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37852) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the user cannot update from JSON 'null' to NULL [#37852](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37852) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

        - Optimize DDL history HTTP API, and add support for 'start_job_id' parameter [#35838](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35838) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

>         - fix inaccuate row_count num [#25968](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25968) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that `row_count` of DDL jobs is inaccurate [#25968](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25968) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014)
```

> 

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that `FLASHBACK TABLE` does not work properly [#37386](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37386) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)

```

    - execution

        - Fix wrong result when enabling dynamic mode in partition table for tiflash [#37254](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37254) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
        - Fix the issue that the cast and comparison between binary string and json is incompatible with MySQL [#31918](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31918) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
        - Fix the issue that the cast and comparison between binary string and json is incompatible with MySQL [#25053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25053) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
        - Fix the issue that the json_objectagg and json_arrayagg is not compatible with MySQL on binary value [#25053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25053) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

    - transaction

        - bugfix: do not acquire pessimistic lock for non-unique index keys [#36235](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36235)
        - Fix the auto-commit mode change related transaction commit behaviours [#36581](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36581) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

> 

Reviewer 15: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue explain analyze with DML executors may respond to the client before the transaction commit has finished [#37273](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37373) @[cfzjywxk](https://github.com/cfzjywxk)

```

    - planner

        - fix update plan's projection elimination will cause column resolution error [#37568](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37568) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
        - planner: fix outer join reorder will push down its outer join condition [#37238](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37238) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
        - make the both side operand of NAAJ & refuse partial column substitute in projection elimination [#37032](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37032) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
        - planner: correct the redundant field meaning in join full schema when join coalesce [#36420](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36420) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)

> 

Reviewer 13: ```suggestion
        - Fix a wrong casting in building union plan [#31678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31678) @[bb7133](https://github.com/bb7133)

```

Moved from sql-infra.
